AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah BeechBANGKOK — The global sports market is worth hundreds of billions of dollars a year. Now, this powerful industry is coming together to promote an unlikely cause: human rights.Since late November, a Bahrain-born soccer player for a minor team in Australia has been held in detention in Thailand. The player, Hakeem al-Araibi, 24, is not a famous athlete. He has no lucrative sponsors.But he has spoken out against one of the most powerful men in international soccer, who is also a member of the ruling family of Bahrain. His testimony of torture at the hands of Bahrain’s repressive government earned him refugee status in Australia, which determined that he faced credible threats of persecution should he return to the Gulf state.Still, over the past week, Mr. Araibi has collected an impressive list of supporters in the world of international sports.Fatma Samoura, the secretary general of FIFA, the international body governing global soccer, has called for Thailand to return him to Australia “as a matter of urgency.” So has Thomas Bach, the head of the International Olympic Committee, who raised the issue with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.On Tuesday, Praful Patel, a vice president of the Asian Football Confederation, issued a statement asking Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha of Thailand to ensure Mr. Araibi’s return to his adopted home.The head of the Asian Football Confederation is Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim al-Khalifa, the Bahraini official whom Mr. Araibi accused of not stopping the persecution of athletes in his charge. Sheikh Salman also serves as a FIFA vice president.Such a collection of statements of support is rare, said Mary Harvey, the chief executive of the Center for Sports and Human Rights, which assembles governments, sports bodies, corporate sponsors and nongovernmental groups to ensure the role of human rights in sports.“Hakeem is a historic test case, because it’s the first time that we’ve seen these big, powerful sports bodies all come together publicly to address the fate of a single person,” said Ms. Harvey, who was a member of the United States national soccer team and a FIFA executive.Sports has been buffeted by growing concerns about the hidden human costs of mega-events, like the Olympics and the World Cup, that have been used to bring international glory to authoritarian governments. Hundreds of foreign laborers, mainly from South Asia, have died in the building of stadiums and other infrastructure for the 2022 men’s soccer World Cup in Qatar, according to the International Trade Union Confederation.Although the Qatari government has pledged to improve the rights of its migrant work force, some construction workers and foreign athletes continue to work in what is essentially indentured servitude, human-rights monitors say.Last year’s hosting of the men’s soccer World Cup by Russia was marred by racism and homophobia controversies. Both bids for the World Cup by Qatar and Russia were tarnished by a series of corruption scandals that cleared out a significant portion of FIFA’s leadership ranks. With corporate sponsors nervous about a backlash from sports fans, FIFA unveiled a series of reforms aimed at bettering its human rights.In January, Brendan Schwab, the executive director of the World Players Association, which represents 85,000 professional athletes worldwide, wrote an urgent legal request on the “severe violation of the human rights” of Mr. Araibi, which was submitted to FIFA. The brief was also signed by unions representing professional soccer players.“Hakeem’s case is about a football player, it’s about a human-rights defender, it’s about a refugee and it’s about global sport’s ability to uphold its stated commitment to human rights,” Mr. Schwab said.Although FIFA now has binding human-rights policies, they are largely untested. Even though FIFA’s human rights advisory board was formed two years ago, the request on Mr. Araibi’s behalf was the first time such a formal submission had been made.When Mr. Araibi traveled to Bangkok on Nov. 27 with his wife for a belated honeymoon, the Thai authorities were waiting for him at the airport.Initially, Thai officials said Mr. Araibi had been detained based on an Interpol request alerting the immigration authorities to fugitives of justice. But Interpol quickly lifted that request because such alerts, called red notices, are not supposed to apply to refugees.Nevertheless, Bahrain has formally asked Thailand for Mr. Araibi’s extradition so he can return to face a 10-year prison sentence for a conviction in absentia on charges that he burned a police station, among other convictions.Last week, the extradition request was passed on to the Thai attorney general’s office, said Busadee Santipitaks, a spokeswoman for the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs, meaning that Mr. Araibi’s fate could be decided in a matter of days.Mr. Araibi was playing in a televised football match when the police station he was supposed to have attacked was burned. Bahrain has racked up thousands of questionable convictions related to its crushing of its Arab Spring movement in 2011, when hundreds of thousands of Bahrainis joined street protests, human rights groups say.Thailand, which has not signed an international convention on refugees, has a history of extraditing human rights defenders to countries they have fled, like China or Bahrain, where they are likely to face imprisonment or torture.In early January, however, a Saudi teenager who had flown to Bangkok and feared death from her family, avoided deportation and was eventually allowed to travel on to Canada, where she was granted asylum. Her release followed an outcry on social media.In 2016, Sheikh Salman, who has refused to answer questions about Mr. Araibi’s detention in Thailand, ran for the FIFA presidency. But his front-runner status diminished in part because of questions raised about Bahrain’s record of imprisoning protesters, including members of the national soccer team.Instead, Gianni Infantino, who was born in Switzerland, won the top job. Both Mr. Infantino and Sheikh Salman are up for re-election to their respective posts this year.Running for the first time for a vice-presidential post in the Asian Football Confederation is Somyot Poompanmoung, the leader of the Football Association of Thailand. A former national police chief, Mr. Somyot faced a scandal last year after it emerged that he had received large loans from a fugitive brothel owner implicated in human trafficking.Thailand has mulled the possibility of jointly bidding for the World Cup in 2034 with another Southeast Asian nation. After the tainted bids by Russia and Qatar, updated FIFA guidelines now require that human rights be considered as a factor in deciding which country wins the right to host the prestigious tournament.“Sports, like the Olympics and football, should and can bring social change,” said Craig Foster, a former captain of the Australian national soccer team who has lobbied on Mr. Araibi’s behalf.“We’ve got to hold governments accountable and say, ‘If you want the great honor of hosting these major sports tournaments, then you have to accept global human rights standards,’” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonRoger Goodell began his tenure as commissioner of the N.F.L. in 2006 declaring that disciplining the league’s 2,000 players for their transgressions would be a priority. True to his word, the number of suspensions and fines rose, and it remains high relative to what it was.Disciplining owners, though, has been more complicated. As with players, the N.F.L. constitution gives the league commissioner broad authority to penalize owners for “conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football.”But while the players essentially work for Goodell, and have little leverage to influence his decisions, Goodell works for the owners, and those owners include Robert K. Kraft of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots.Kraft, 77, was charged on Friday with two counts of soliciting sex as part of a wide-ranging investigation into prostitution and human trafficking in Florida. The police in Jupiter, Fla., used video surveillance that showed Kraft inside a massage parlor that, the police said, was used for selling sex.In a statement, the Patriots “categorically deny that Mr. Kraft engaged in any illegal activity.”However the case is resolved, the episode is an embarrassment to a league that likes to portray itself as a pillar of moral rectitude but that has struggled to shake an image that its players, employees and owners treat women poorly.The league has been rocked by a host of domestic violence scandals. Cheerleaders have detailed how they were exploited by their teams. Last year, Jerry Richardson, the former owner of the Carolina Panthers, was fined $2.75 million after an investigation confirmed claims that for years he sexually harassed employees.Now this.If Kraft is found to have committed a crime, even a misdemeanor, Goodell will be under pressure to penalize him to compensate for the embarrassment the league has suffered. How he treats the matter will provide an illustration of the dynamics of power at the highest ranks of the league and show the lengths he will go to appear to treat players and owners equally before the expiration of the current labor deal two years from now.Kraft may be the league’s most successful owner: His franchise has won six Super Bowl titles since the 2001 season. As a key figure in negotiating labor deals and broadcast contracts, he may also be the league’s most powerful one. He is also a confidant of the commissioner, close with the leaders of the league’s media partners and the league’s go-between with President Trump.That said, the N.F.L. includes its share of misfits and wayward sons, and from time to time, the patriarch, or, in this case, the commissioner, has to dole out justice. How much justice often depends on the stature of the owner, the offense he or she committed and any past transgressions.Some cases are straightforward. When Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., the former owner of the San Francisco 49ers, pleaded guilty for failing to report a felony arising from a gambling fraud and extortion case, few were surprised when the commissioner at the time, Paul Tagliabue, fined him $1 million and suspended him for the 1999 season.Jim Irsay, the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, who has a history of substance abuse, pleaded guilty to driving while impaired, and was promptly suspended for six games and fined $500,000 for violating the league’s personal conduct policy.Kraft’s case is more complicated. He was charged with two misdemeanors, and those charges may be reduced or dropped as charges of soliciting a prostitute often are. Kraft is not married. His wife, Myra, died of cancer in 2011.Hugh Culverhouse Jr., who was involved in league matters when his father owned the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and who practiced federal criminal law for 30 years, said Goodell would most likely wait to see if the charges against Kraft were dropped, and then might only issue a fine.Even so, he suggested Kraft was likely to be treated with kid gloves because he is among the most powerful owners. Kraft also sits on the compensation committee, which determines the size of Goodell’s paycheck.“He essentially could be sanctioned for bad taste,” Culverhouse said. “It will come down to embarrassment.”In a statement, the N.F.L. said it is “aware of the ongoing law enforcement matter and will continue to monitor developments.”At the very least, the commissioner will have to appear not to have one set of rules for players and another for owners. There are differences, though. Player penalties are negotiated by the players’ union and the league and included in the collective bargaining agreement.The league’s constitution says Goodell can suspend or fine an owner (for no more than $500,000), or both. A suspended owner cannot go to the team’s training facility or stadium.If warranted, the commissioner can refer the matter to the entire group of owners, which can vote to impose additional penalties.That is unlikely to happen in Kraft’s case. Jodi Balsam, who was a lawyer at the N.F.L. and now teaches at Brooklyn Law School, said the league often waits until legal cases are resolved before penalties are assessed. Prostitution cases are often adjudicated quickly, she said, though this case will receive more scrutiny because it is part of a human trafficking investigation.“If he is convicted, that would seem to bolster the case for commissioner discipline,” she said. And “even if he escapes criminal penalty, the league can conduct its own investigation and decide to penalize him.”Goodell and the Patriots have butted heads before, over Spygate, in which the Patriots were found to be filming their opponents’ sideline to steal signals, and Deflategate, in which a league investigation determined it was most likely that the team had deliberately deflated footballs in inclement weather so players could grip the ball better.Kraft didn’t hide his anger about the penalties his organization received in those cases. This one, of course, is different.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirAl Silverman, a magazine editor and publishing executive who collaborated with the Chicago Bears halfback Gale Sayers on an autobiography that was adapted into “Brian’s Song,” the popular 1971 television movie about the friendship between Mr. Sayers and his dying teammate, Brian Piccolo, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.His son Brian confirmed the death.In 1969, when he began his conversations with Mr. Sayers, Mr. Silverman was well known in sports publishing. He had been a prolific freelance writer in the 1950s for various magazines, including Sport, a popular monthly, which hired him as its editor in chief in 1960, and where he was still working. He had also written books about, or with, sports figures like Mickey Mantle, Joe DiMaggio and Frank Robinson.In Mr. Sayers, who was 26, Mr. Silverman had a sensational young player as a subject: In his first three seasons, beginning in 1965, his speed and elusiveness had made him a superstar. But an injury to his right knee during a game in 1968 imperiled his career; he was still recovering when he began to tell his life story to Mr. Silverman, who wrote about his regimen of physical rehabilitation for Sport.Their book, “I Am Third” (1970), contained one chapter called “Pick,” about his friendship with Mr. Piccolo, who died of lung cancer in 1970. (The book’s title refers to a sign Mr. Sayers had seen on his college track coach’s desk: “The Lord is first, my friends are second, and I am third.”)“As much as they cut into this man, as much as he was inflicted with terrible pain and discomfort, as much as he was faced with all these tortures, his spirit would not be destroyed,” Mr. Sayers and Mr. Silverman wrote. “That was the beautiful nature of Brian Piccolo.”The story told in that chapter became the basis for “Brian’s Song,” a tear-jerker that starred Billy Dee Williams as Mr. Sayers and James Caan as Mr. Piccolo and became one of the most-watched TV movies of all time and won the 1972 Emmy Award for outstanding single program. It was remade for television in 2001 with Mekhi Phifer and Sean Maher.“I don’t remember my father talking about his greatest projects, but in terms of royalties, it was the best,” Brian Silverman said by telephone.Mr. Silverman left the sports world in 1972, when he joined the Book-of-the-Month Club mail-order concern as executive vice president and editorial director. While there, Mr. Silverman understood that smart marketing was as important as selecting the right books for its broad swath of readers.“He had a great gift for creating an event out of an editorial decision and making book-club members feel like participants in the event, at a time when book clubs were considered predictable,” Larry Shapiro, the club’s former executive editor, said in an email.During his 16 years at the Book-of-the-Month Club, Mr. Silverman rose to president and later chief executive before joining Viking Books as a general editor.“The thrill was working for the first time in my life with writers, which you don’t do at Book-of-the-Month Club,” he told Publishers Weekly in an interview in 2002. “At Viking I was given great writers to work with, including William Kennedy, Robertson Davies and Saul Bellow.”Mr. Silverman also edited several of  T. C. Boyle’s books, including the novel “The Tortilla Curtain” (1995).“He gave me his full support and a devotion rare in the publishing world,” Mr. Boyle wrote in an email. “He was generous with his time and affection, an editor who cared deeply about his authors.”Elwyn Harmon Silverman was born on April 12, 1926, in Lynn, Mass. His father, Henry, was a tailor, and his mother, Minnie (Damsky) Silverman, was a homemaker.Al grew up a fan of the Boston Braves and later wrote a biography of Warren Spahn, the Braves’ Hall of Fame pitcher. After graduating from Boston University and serving stateside in the Navy during World War II, Mr. Silverman began freelancing.As editor of Sport, one of his ceremonial tasks was to award a sports car to the athlete designated most valuable player in the World Series, the National Basketball Association finals and other postseason championships.When the running back Paul Hornung was celebrated for leading the Green Bay Packers to the 1961 National Football League championship, Sport awarded him a 1962 Corvette. Mr. Hornung soon after sold the car and got into a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service in United States Tax Court after he failed to disclose the full market value of the car as part of his gross income for 1962.“My father testified to Hornung’s defense that he should not pay income tax on the car,” Brian Silverman said. His father argued that the car was an unsolicited reward for Mr. Hornung’s talents and thus should be tax-exempt — “the same as a Nobel Prize, because football was Hornung’s art and he performed it to an award-winning degree.” Mr. Hornung lost the case.Mr. Silverman later collaborated with Mr. Hornung on his memoir “Football and the Single Man” (1965).In addition to his son Brian, Mr. Silverman is survived by his wife, Rosa (Magaro) Silverman; two other sons, Thomas and Matthew; and seven grandchildren.Mr. Silverman continued to write books after retiring from Viking. He returned to sports with “It’s Not Over ’Til It’s Over: Stories Behind the Most Magnificent, Heart-Stoping Miracles of Our Time” (2002), and he wrote about postwar book publishing in “The Time of Their Lives” (2008).In his review of “The Time of Their Lives” for The New York Times, the novelist and playwright Bruce Jay Friedman called it “a wonderful book, filled with anecdotal treasures.”“It could have been written only by a ‘bookman,’ ” he added, “someone with printer’s ink in his blood and bones.”An earlier version of this obituary misstated the surname of a former executive editor of the Book-of-the-Month Club, where Mr. Silverman was an executive for many years. He is Larry Shapiro, not Jacobs.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnThe N.F.L. on Sunday ended months of uncertainty by officially announcing Maroon 5 and the rappers Travis Scott and Big Boi as the lineup for this year’s Super Bowl halftime show.In an indication of how fraught the debate around the high-profile performance has become, Scott released a statement on Sunday announcing that he and the N.F.L. will partner on a $500,000 donation to the social justice group Dream Corps — a move that seemed to be aimed at stemming a backlash from groups that have criticized the football league’s policies.Sources familiar with the N.F.L.’s Super Bowl plans had confirmed the rock band Maroon 5 as the headliner as long ago as September, and Scott emerged last month as a reported addition to the Feb. 3 halftime performance at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. Big Boi, the newest name on the bill, is a member of the Atlanta rap group Outkast.But the run-up to this year’s halftime announcement had turned into a skirmish over sports and politics, as artists and others criticized the N.F.L. over its treatment of Colin Kaepernick and other players who have taken a knee during the national anthem in protest of racial injustice.In February, the rapper Cardi B, who was featured on Maroon 5’s hit “Girls Like You” last year, told the celebrity news website TMZ that she would consider performing at a halftime show “when they hire Colin Kaepernick back.”In a song released last June, Jay-Z rapped, “I said no to the Super Bowl, you need me, I don’t need you.”Scott’s involvement, specifically, has prompted criticism from some. In an interview with TMZ, the Rev. Al Sharpton said he thought Scott “should do what a lot of other major artists have done — say, ‘I’m not going to participate.’”“You can’t fight against Jim Crow and then go sit in the back of the bus,” he added.In a pair of tweets, the rapper Meek Mill responded to the news that Scott would be performing with, “For what????” and “He don’t need that he on fire already!”And Gerald Griggs, first vice president of the Atlanta chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., told The Guardian that the chapter had contacted artists and asked them not to perform. “The majority of artists we’ve reached out to are standing in solidarity against the N.F.L.,” Griggs said. “They do not want to be associated because of the protest that was started by Mr. Kaepernick against racial injustice and police brutality.”For his part, Van Jones, the president of Dream Corps and a founder of the group, celebrated the announcement in a post on Twitter, addressing Scott by his handle.“This is great news!” Jones wrote. “Welcome, @trvisXX. Glad to have you with us, brother!”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanRing in the new year with some organization inspiration, courtesy of Marie Kondo, and the first-ever “Doctor Who” New Year’s Day special.TIDYING UP WITH MARIE KONDO on Netflix. If you want to start 2019 with a clean slate, Netflix’s new original series may provide some inspiration, courtesy of the minimalist queen of clean Marie Kondo. In the eight-episode series, the author of “The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up” puts her advice into practice, visiting the homes of people who desperately want to declutter and identify the belongings that “spark joy.”DOCTOR WHO NEW YEAR’S DAY SPECIAL 8 p.m. on BBC America. The 13th doctor returns for the first “Doctor Who” New Year’s Day special. The time lord (Jodie Whittaker) and her companions must defend Earth from “the most dangerous creature in the universe.” And, based on the “ex-ter-mi-nate!” heard in the episode’s teaser, she might be facing off against some familiar foes: the Daleks. The hourlong episode “Resolution” follows an eight-day “Doctor Who” marathon.COLLEGE FOOTBALL on ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC. New Year’s Day promises hours of college football, with 10 teams competing in bowl games. You can catch the Outback Bowl in Tampa, Fla., at 12 p.m. on ESPN2, and the Citrus Bowl from Orlando, Fla., at 1 p.m. on ABC. On ESPN, LSU teams up against the University of Central Florida in the Fiesta Bowl at 1 p.m., Washington plays Ohio State in the Rose Bowl at 5 p.m., and No. 15 Texas takes on the No. 5-ranked Georgia Bulldogs at 8:45 p.m. in the Sugar Bowl.AKC NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on Animal Planet. See canines of all kinds strut their stuff in one of the largest televised dog shows. This four-hour broadcast features breeds from around the world vie not just for best in show but in obedience and agility events, like dock diving and rally. Celebrity dog owners will also get in on the action, with the TV host Mario Lopez and the Olympian Shawn Johnson acting as representatives for their pets’ respective groups.LOVE, GILDA (2018) 9 and 11 p.m. on CNN. This moving documentary tribute to the comedian Gilda Radner makes its television debut. With the help of Radner’s notes and journals, as well as personal audio recordings and videos, the filmmaker Lisa D’Apolito shares stories from Radner’s life, from her work on “Saturday Night Live” to the health struggles that led to her death in 1989, at age 42. The program also features interviews with her close friends Chevy Chase and Lorne Michaels, as well as other “S.N.L.” alums influenced by her work, like Bill Hader, Amy Poehler and Maya Rudolph. In his review, the critic Jason Zinoman of The New York Times called “Love, Gilda” “a very affectionate reminder of her brief and brilliant career, a heartfelt love letter whose title might be more accurate without the comma.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy and Kevin DraperBy several important measurements, the Pacific-12 Conference, the college sports league that calls itself “the conference of champions,” did not have a very good year.For the third time in five seasons, no Pac-12 team made the College Football Playoff. The conference had just three entrants in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, and all of them bowed out in the first round. Former athletic directors publicly criticized the league office for being out of touch. There was even a report that a conference official inappropriately intervened in a video replay review during a crucial football game.The Pac-12 football champion, Washington, played Ohio State in the Rose Bowl on Tuesday, losing by 28-23. And although that game remains valuable for many Pac-12 fans in terms of heritage and tradition (and for the conference in terms of money), it nonetheless represents another end-of-season consolation game for the league, which houses the traditional power Southern California and more recent contenders like Stanford, Oregon and Utah.At the root of these travails is money.As the other four power conferences, especially the Big Ten and the Southeastern Conference, have struck lucrative media deals to infuse their members with revenue in recent years, the Pac-12 has failed to keep up. That’s despite a footprint that includes four of the country’s 15 largest media markets, including the second-largest, Los Angeles. Since Larry Scott was hired as commissioner in 2009, Pac-12 revenue has grown to $500 million from $100 million, and the average amount each member school receives from the conference has nearly quadrupled. But compared with the other four Power 5 conferences, the Pac-12 still lags behind. It was last in the amount of money it distributed to members in 2009, and second to last in 2016. It will likely soon be last again, when the ACC Network is launched next year.Average distribution per school*$50 millionSEC40Big TenBig 12Pac-1230A.C.C.20100’09’10’11’12’13’14’15’16Data Source: Form 990s that all five conferences file annually with the Internal Revenue Service* Only schools that received a full, not a partial, payout were included.Average distribution per school*$50 millionSEC40Big TenBig 12Pac-1230A.C.C.20100’09’16Data Source: Form 990s that all five conferences fileannually with the Internal Revenue Service* Only schools that received a full, not a partial,payout were included.By The New York Times“Short term, we’ve fallen behind,” Pac-12 Commissioner Larry Scott said in an interview in December. “There’s no question about it.”Without the same financial resources as their competitors, many Pac-12 colleges have struggled to compete when it comes to hiring the top coaches, building the glitzy facilities and recruiting the star players that yield greater success. “It’s a virtuous cycle: better players, better media deals, more money through the conference, more money to spend on your program and coaches and all the accouterments that go along with a good program,” said Warren Zola, a sports business professor at Boston College’s Carroll School of Management.The financial shortfall is largely the product of a bet that Scott — a former captain of the Harvard tennis team — and the Pac-12 made seven years ago while negotiating a series of multibillion-dollar media rights agreements and starting a conference network.Unlike the commissioners of other major college conferences, Scott decided to buck a trend with his conference-owned sports network by opting not to partner with a traditional media company. (Fox, for instance, owns 51 percent of the Big Ten Network.) Instead, Scott kept the Pac-12 Network and its affiliates independent.This has meant forgoing what would likely have been hundreds of millions of dollars over the past several years in rights fees if the Pac-12 had partnered with a traditional media company or renegotiated its current deal more in tune with the rising market for live sports rights. The Pac-12 is also paying tens of millions of dollars to run a cable network out of its own pocket and has limited its distribution options by forgoing the negotiating clout that comes with partnering with a major broadcaster.All of this in exchange for retaining 100 percent ownership in the venture.In 2011, it looked as if Scott might have made a good bet. The Pac-12 sold most of its marquee football and basketball games to Fox and ESPN for about $3 billion over 12 years, more than quadrupling what the two companies had been paying and setting a record for the richest conference contract. But that arrangement has since been eclipsed by TV deals for other leagues. Last year, for instance, the Big Ten announced a new deal, also with Fox and ESPN, worth nearly the same amount as the Pac-12’s deal ($2.64 billion) for half the years (six). So even as the market for college sports rights rises significantly, the Pac-12’s long-term deal effectively locked it into that 2011 rate until the arrangement expires in 2024.Scott insisted that the conference would soon be in a position to surpass its competitors, since the other leagues have deals that stretch into the 2030s. A windfall, Scott predicted, is all but inevitable.“Our bet is that by not extending our rights 10 or 15 years now, come 2024, the wisdom of this approach will be evident,” Scott said.The Pac-12 lived up to its self-appointed moniker during the 2017-18 school year, winning the most championships over all of any league for the 13th straight year, with a total of 12 titles in sports including men’s baseball and women’s gymnastics and tennis. With three national titles already this fall, it will likely do the same this school year.However, titles in volleyball and water polo do not pay the bills, and in the sports that do — football and men’s basketball — the conference of the Trojans and John Wooden has slipped.In absolute terms, the Pac-12 is nowhere near the poor house. Since Scott took over what was then the Pac-10 in 2009, the conference’s revenue has grown to $500 million from $100 million, and the average annual per-school payout to $31 million from $9 million.But Big Ten members anticipate receiving more than $50 million from the conference this fiscal year because of a new television agreement. SEC members get roughly $41 million from the conference. The Pac-12 will most likely soon be last among the five major conferences in the average annual amount received by conference members, also trailing the Big 12 and the Atlantic Coast Conference, after the ACC Network, owned by ESPN, launches next year.More money would come in handy. Washington State’s athletic department owes $85 million after borrowing heavily to renovate its football stadium. Cal has pledged to subsidize more than half the $440 million in debt its athletic department incurred for facilities construction.Salaries for the Pac-12’s head football and men’s basketball coaches lag those of their peers, according to USA Today’s databases. In football, Washington’s Chris Petersen, the best-paid coach in the conference, is 19th over all; four conference head coaches make less than Louisiana State’s defensive coordinator does. In basketball, where salaries generally are smaller, league head coaches are paid more competitively, although big names in the A.C.C., the Big Ten and the Big 12 tend to make more than their counterparts in the Pac-12.Kevin Blue, the athletic director at California-Davis, who was previously a senior associate athletic director at Stanford, said the SEC and the Big Ten “are setting the market” for coaching salaries.Several of the conference’s former athletic directors have publicly accused Scott of being more concerned with pleasing his bosses — university presidents and chancellors — than supporting the directors themselves, who are ostensibly more in touch with the business end of college athletics. One of the Pac-12’s biggest challenges is geography. College sports are a fundamentally easier sell in the vast spaces of the Midwest and the South than they are in the sun- and snow-kissed cities and landscapes of the West.“There are other parts of the country where it doesn’t matter who your team is playing against, you’re going to fill a 90,000-seat stadium,” Scott said. “I don’t have one school like that.”Similarly, several of Scott’s critics complain that the league’s media deal requires frequent Friday night and late Saturday football games, which can be tougher for fans to attend. League coaches, including Petersen, have raised this issue. But changing that is likely impossible, given that the conference’s universities are in the Mountain and Pacific time zones, and roughly seven in 10 television viewers in the United States live in the Central or Eastern time zones.“If you want to get revenues at the same level, then you’ve got to have kickoffs in East Coast prime time,” said Lee Berke, a sports media consultant. “And unless your schools are located there, they will never be in that position.”Given those disadvantages, the Pac-12 and its eponymous TV network have tried to lean into the conference’s superiority in a wide range of Olympic and nonrevenue sports beyond football and basketball. The national Pac-12 Network and its six regional affiliates show about 850 events a year, almost double the Big Ten Network.“We have a network that allows us to project our identity and the full breadth of our sports,” said Michael Crow, the long-serving president of Arizona State (who lettered in track and field at Iowa State). Crow is one of three Pac-12 presidents or chancellors remaining from the group that hired Scott in 2009. “It’s fantastic that women’s volleyball and softball and athlete profiles are going out across the whole western United States on a network we control.”But although it is now in its fifth year, the Pac-12 Network faces difficulty reaching viewers. It has never been carried by DirectTV, which delivers television to about 20 million households and is the provider of choice for many bars and restaurants. Half a million homes, according to one estimate, lost the Pac-12 Network after the channel was recently dropped from AT&T’s U-Verse. Over all, the network and its affiliates are in about 19 million homes nationwide, according to SNL Kagan, a business research firm, compared with 59 million for the SEC Network and 51 million for the Big Ten Network. Revenue follows accordingly; the Pac-12 Network generated about $2.75 million for each of the conference’s colleges last year, while Big Ten schools received around four times as much. “We absolutely recognize we are taking a bolder and different path than everyone else,” Scott said. “The safest would be to do what everyone else has done: take a partner in your network, extend your rights to 2035.”Instead, the Pac-12 hopes it has an ace in the hole. Come 2024, it will be the only major conference with all of its rights up for grabs — a moment, perhaps, of rare leverage.Scott speculated that in addition to traditional television broadcasters like ESPN, Fox, CBS and NBC, digital companies will compete to buy the Pac-12’s rights. He name-checked just about all of them: Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Google, Netflix, DAZN and ESPN+.“Come 2024, the wisdom of this approach will be evident,” he said. “There’s no guarantee, but that’s the bet that we’ve made.” The promise of future riches can be cold comfort for Pac-12 universities during their present-day struggles.“I get it,” said Steve Patterson, a former Arizona State athletic director. “The coach has to win every week, or three times a week, and the A.D.s have to manage it every year.”But Patterson, who is now a consultant, is optimistic. “I do think, in the long run, it is going to pay off,” he said. “But like building any business, it’s not simple. Taking a check is simple.”Marc Tracy has covered college sports for The Times since 2014. Previously he worked at Tablet Magazine and The New Republic.  @marcatracy Kevin Draper is a sports business reporter, covering the leagues, owners, unions, stadiums and media companies behind the games. Prior to joining The Times, he was an editor at Deadspin.  @kevinmdraper AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaFIFA is pressing ahead with plans to expand the 2022 World Cup despite the concerns of some officials in the host nation, Qatar, whose support the project requires. The move, a politically perilous project but one heavily backed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, would grow soccer’s biggest championship to 48 teams ahead of schedule and require navigating some treacherous regional rivalries.Under the plan currently being considered, most matches in the 2022 tournament would still be held in Qatar — which won the rights to a 32-team event and continues to prepare for one — but other games would take place in Kuwait and Oman as part of a broader Middle Eastern World Cup. Infantino’s expansion would not send games to countries that are currently leading a political and economic blockade of Qatar, like the United Arab Emirates.Infantino, elected FIFA president in 2016 and seeking re-election to a four-year term in June, has been among the biggest proponents of an expanded World Cup that, through increased places for FIFA’s member associations and increased sponsorship revenues, could prove popular among countries that rarely get to compete in the tournament.A final call on the idea was expected to be made next week when FIFA’s governing council meets in Miami, but Infantino has decided to move the final decision to FIFA’s annual Congress in June, where he is standing unopposed for re-election.Should Qatar agree to the change — its consent is required — and should logistical challenges be overcome, Infantino would most likely seek the approval of FIFA’s 211 member federations, a grouping long known for rubber-stamping policies favored by the president. He had said previously that the decision would be taken up by the smaller FIFA Council, which governs the sport worldwide.FIFA and Qatar’s World Cup organizers did not comment on the matter.Privately though, some senior members of the organizing committee who have been working on the event since Qatar controversially secured it a decade ago are opposed to sharing the competition and frustrated that it may yet happen. Qatar’s final position on the matter will be defined by its rulers, who may see political advantage in agreeing to include specific neighbors.While Infantino has suggested that sharing games with Qatar’s neighbors would help heal rifts in the region, a FIFA-led group conducting a feasibility study has concluded that it would be impractical to include the blockading countries, which also include Bahrain, in hosting plans, leaving Oman and Kuwait as favored choices. Infantino recently visited both countries, where he discussed the idea, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Infantino has pushed an expansion of the World Cup at every opportunity in recent years, despite setbacks along the way. He pulled the issue from the agenda at last year’s FIFA Congress amid a backlash from various stakeholders.But Qatar’s posture — it has not publicly rejected an expanded World Cup, even as logistics almost certainly require bringing in partners — has emboldened Infantino to forge ahead to secure the expanded format, which has been adopted for the 2026 World Cup and beyond. Qatar 2022 organizers have said since last summer that they will reserve judgment on a 48-team tournament until a comprehensive study has been carried out.Infantino has vacillated when asked about the intensity of his push for a 48-team World Cup, veering between sporting justifications that center on growing interest in the sport and politically hopeful ones that suggest it could ease political tensions in the region.“There are tensions in this particular region, and it’s up to their respective leaders to deal with that, but maybe it’s easier to talk about a joint football project than more complicated things,” Infantino said in January. “If it can help all the people in the Gulf and all the countries in the world develop football and bring a positive message to the world about football, then you should give it a try.”Kuwait and Oman have remained largely neutral during the Gulf crisis, which has been characterized by bitterness and often petty behavior between opposing countries. That enmity was laid bare at the recently completed Asian Cup, where Qatar routed host United Arab Emirates in a final that was played in a poisonous atmosphere and will be remembered for the scores of shoes and other types of footwear that rained down from the bleachers toward Qatar’s players as they celebrated goals in a 4-0 victory. With flights blocked between the countries, Qatari players traveled to the tournament via Oman, while its fans were largely barred from attending.The travel restrictions are also a concern for World Cup organizers who had banked on thousands of supporters traveling to the event from Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.There are several logistical hurdles to clear for an expanded tournament. FIFA officials have ruled that Qatar, smaller in size than Connecticut, won’t be able to absorb the additional games, and now must decide if neighboring countries possess infrastructure that meets its exacting demands.Potential hurdles include a ban on serving alcohol in Kuwait as well as the provision of training venues and airports.Separately, FIFA will have to work out how to add 16 more games into a schedule that has been reduced to 29 days to appease European soccer leagues left furious by moving the tournament from its traditional June-July calendar to November-December because of the ferocious summer temperatures in the Gulf.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelLAKE FOREST, Ill. — During practice last Thursday afternoon, Tarik Cohen caught a punt. Still clutching the ball, he proceeded to catch another. And another. And another. And another. And another.And another.By the end of this wacky experiment, Cohen was cradling seven balls — one, roughly, for every role he has with the Chicago Bears.Cohen is — O.K., deep breath — the Bears’ handoff-taking, punt-returning, ball-catching, pass-throwing, mismatch-creating, gasp-inducing, highlight-monopolizing cyborg. A year after becoming the first rookie since Gale Sayers, a former Bear, in 1965, to contribute touchdowns by running, receiving, passing and punt return, Cohen has further obliterated concerns that a 5-foot-6 running back from the humble Football Championship Subdivision would struggle transitioning to the N.F.L.’s rugged N.F.C. North.[Wild-Card Weekend: Our Predictions for the N.F.L. Playoffs]If the quarterback-wrecking edge rusher Khalil Mack embodies a defense that has fueled the Bears’ worst-to-first ascent — as the N.F.C.’s third seed, they’ll face the No. 6-seeded Eagles in the wild-card round on Sunday, their first playoff appearance since 2010 — Cohen personifies the offense installed by the team’s first-year coach, Matt Nagy: creative, unpredictable and, at times, downright fun. Nagy has maximized Cohen’s speed, suddenness and receiving skills by aligning him around the formation, from the backfield to the inside to the outside, turning him into, in effect, Chicago’s offensive version of Mack: the player opponents must stalk wherever he is on the field. He led the team in catches (71), yards from scrimmage (1,169) and all-purpose yardage (1,599), and was voted onto the All-Pro team as punt returner.“He’s got a lot of strengths and not a lot of weaknesses,” Nagy said. “Having him be a part of what we do and what we scheme is a huge advantage.”Soon after the Bears hired Nagy away from Kansas City, where he served for five seasons on Andy Reid’s staff, Cohen heard that last season the Chiefs featured three players who gained more than 1,000 yards: receiver Tyreek Hill, tight end Travis Kelce and running back Kareem Hunt. Cohen did not know when or how he would get the ball in Chicago, he said, only that he would.“Get me the ball and get me in space,” Cohen said.That just might be his motto. His 170 touches rank second on the team, behind Jordan Howard, the primary rusher. As a runner, Cohen has the seventh-best breakaway percentage in the N.F.L., gaining 44.4 percent of his 444 yards on carries of at least 15 yards, according to Pro Football Focus. As a receiver, Cohen averages 10.2 yards per reception, most among the 20 backs with at least 40 catches, according to Pro Football Reference.As the position has evolved, a hybridized strain of running back has permeated the league, players as comfortable with, and capable of, lining up in the slot or being split wide as they are rushing 20 times per game. Cohen does not run as often as other versatile second-year dynamos like the Panthers’ Christian McCaffrey or the Saints’ Alvin Kamara, but his proficiency in the passing game — his 175 snaps away from the backfield were the most among running backs — has made him, according to Pro Football Focus’s Wins Above Replacement metric, the second-most valuable player at his position, just behind McCaffrey.“I don’t think there’s anything he can’t do,” Bears running back Benny Cunningham said.The Bears’ vast playbook — Minnesota Vikings Coach Mike Zimmer quipped earlier this season that it contained 800 plays — demands Cohen know entire passing concepts because any week he could line up at four or five different spots. His first-year position coach, Charles London, marveled early on at Cohen’s savvy — how he can see a drawing or a video of a play and master his responsibilities on the field in a repetition or two. His improvement as a blocker has helped Chicago disguise its calls, diminishing tendencies that his alignment might have tipped off.“There’s not really a route — at running back or receiver — that he can’t run in this offense,” London said.That was Cohen’s objective during the off-season, he said, when he devoted two days a week to refining routes that come back to the ball, like curls, during seven-on-seven drills with his former North Carolina A&T teammates. He did not want to be branded as only a deep-ball threat, just as he does not want to be perceived as strictly a perimeter runner, someone unwilling — or worse, not stout enough — to run between the tackles.Further evidence: Ask Cohen his top play from this season, and he mentions not the 70-yard screen against the Jets, the 50-yard catch-and-dash at Miami or the overtime-forcing touchdown toss at the Giants. In his mind, all the feints, cutbacks and bursts that evoke his favorite player, Reggie Bush, do not compare to the punt he fielded midway through the first quarter against New England in Week 7, when he stepped left, cut right, then zipped left again, shedding a tackle at his feet before encountering a defender by the boundary squaring up to level him.The contact was brief. The defender crumpled. Cohen did not.“Somebody so small running somebody big over — it makes everybody’s day,” Cohen said.Cohen is short but, listed at 181 pounds, not small. He is thick and sturdy, with disproportionately enormous hands — size 10⅛ from thumb to pinkie, bigger than those of hulking receiving threats like Kelce, Julio Jones and A.J. Green — that help him do things like, say, hold on to seven balls at the same time.Growing up in rural Bunn, N.C., about 30 miles northeast of Raleigh, Cohen specialized in such exploits. For one, he developed his speed — like another Bears playmaker before him — through unorthodox methods. Instead of running through tall, thick grass, as Devin Hester did, Cohen dodged the pit bulls that he said roamed his neighborhood.“It’s fight or flight,” Cohen said. “Either get going or you’re going to get eat, so you’ve got to get out of there.”He did get out of there — to play football, but barely. Had North Carolina A&T, a historically black university, not offered him a scholarship, Cohen would have joined the Navy.Why?“I knew how to swim,” said Cohen, sitting in the Halas Hall lobby before practice one day last week. “And it wasn’t like people were getting killed in the Navy.”Rather than enlist, Cohen opted to dominate the F.C.S. Across his four seasons at A&T, he rushed for a Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference record 5,619 yards, the 10th-most in the history of what was formerly Division I-AA. But when N.F.L. scouts passed through Greensboro, said Shawn Gibbs, his position coach at A&T, some seemed unconvinced.“They just tried to poke holes in everything he did — like, he’s good, but,” Gibbs said. “The guys that were like: ‘Man, this guy can walk under this table. I can’t take him to my G.M.’ Those were the guys that were frustrating.”It was the Bears’ good fortune that their scout who prowls the Southeast, Sam Summerville, attended a historically black college himself. Before even studying Cohen, Summerville admired him as a fan, watching from afar as he rushed for 295 yards — and touchdowns of 74, 83 and 73 yards — against Alcorn State in the Celebration Bowl.The deeper he probed, the more Summerville believed in Cohen. Not as a gadget player, but as an N.F.L. running back. At Summerville’s urging, the Bears deployed additional scouts to evaluate him, and they, too, grew enamored. Still, as they prepped for the 2017 draft, Summerville expected pushback — for everything from Cohen’s statistics, perceived to be inflated by the lesser competition, to his stature. So he relied on emotion as much as reason to convey why they needed him.In an impassioned plea, Summerville showed his colleagues the clip of Cohen catching two balls while doing a back flip. (Yes, really.) He affirmed that rival coaches feared no player more than Cohen. He explained that of the 350 to 400 players he assessed in the fall of 2016, Cohen was “definitely” his favorite.“It got to the point where some of the other scouts may have been rolling their eyes a little bit, like, ‘this guy’s serious,’” Summerville said. “Every time I opened my mouth about him, or every time a question was asked, they were like, ‘Do you think this guy can do this?’ Tarik can do pretty much everything you ask him to.”The Bears chose Cohen with one of their fourth-round selections — they took another foundational player, safety Eddie Jackson, seven picks earlier — and before he even took a snap, Cunningham exhorted his friends to draft him for their fantasy football teams. Many satisfied customers, he said.Over the summer, Summerville reviewed his reports on Cohen, to check whether reality matched projections. It did not. Cohen surpassed them. One after another after another after another.And another.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigelAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA handful of programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while other schools would get caught up in a bidding war they couldn’t afford. By Cody J. McDavisMr. McDavis is a law student and former Division I college basketball player.When the Duke University basketball star Zion Williamson injured his knee in a freak accident in a game on Wednesday, it reignited a debate over whether student-athletes competing as amateurs on college campuses should instead become paid professionals. If Williamson and other elite players like him are going to risk their professional futures by playing college sports, many wonder, shouldn’t they be financially compensated?Paying student-athletes might sound like a fairer way to treat students who generate so much money and attention for their colleges (not to mention the television networks that broadcast their games). But paying athletes would distort the economics of college sports in a way that would hurt the broader community of student-athletes, universities, fans and alumni. A handful of big sports programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while almost every other college would get caught up in a bidding war it couldn’t afford. The 30 largest universities in the country each routinely generate annual revenues exceeding $100 million from sports, but according to the National Collegiate Athletic Association, most of those revenues are spent covering operating expenses for the school’s athletic programs and paying tuition for their student-athletes. The majority of Division I colleges in the N.C.A.A. operate at a loss. In fact, among the roughly 350 athletic departments in the N.C.A.A.’s Division I, only about 24 schools have generated more revenue than expenses in recent years. The nation’s top five conferences made over $6 billion in 2015, billions more than all other schools combined, according to an ESPN analysis of N.C.A.A. data.Forcing the @NCAA to pay student-athletes would ruin college sports, says @CodyMcDavis. Watch his @Instagram Story: https://t.co/a2BY784nO4 and read his Op-Ed:  https://t.co/cFdNkb6tSG pic.twitter.com/BkejmwutNKFor the have-not universities, however, to continue operating means relying on millions of dollars in debt, funding from their main campus and student fees. Even with that help, some of the major athletic departments are struggling. A recent N.C.A.A. study determined that only about 20 of the 1,000 or so college sports programs in the nation were profitable. What is going to happen when the competition to offer students money is supercharged?A federal judge in Northern California, Claudia Wilken, will soon decide if student-athletes should instead be paid more like professionals. At the moment, thanks in part to the pressure exerted by a 2015 ruling by Judge Wilken, top N.C.A.A. athletes can receive scholarships totaling tens of thousands of dollars for tuition, room, board and stipends, as well as cost-of-attendance compensation. But the association still sets a ceiling on those benefits, and a group of Division I basketball and football players is awaiting Judge Wilken’s ruling on whether that ceiling should effectively be lifted.If the plaintiffs in this case are successful, the arms race for top athletes may have no limit. The top 25 or so schools will pay because they can afford to. The remaining 325 or so will be forced to make a decision: not pay their athletes (and risk losing top talent to schools that do) or find a way to pay.We have already had a preview of what happens when schools are put in this position. In August 2015, after the N.C.A.A. began allowing Division I universities to adopt “cost of attendance” stipends, North Dakota State University announced that it would offer such stipends in 16 sports, resulting in a new $600,000 annual expense to be paid by the athletic department. The school’s rival, the University of North Dakota, followed suit six days later. What happened? The University of North Dakota cut five teams over the next two years to help pay for the added expense.The University of Wyoming, too, announced that it would offer stipends to its student-athletes in 2015, resulting in a new expected annual cost of $700,000 to the athletic department. A year later, calls were being made for a reduction in the athletic department because of budgetary concerns. (Those cuts almost certainly would have been made, had it not been for a $4 million subsidy from the state government.)Gene Smith, the athletic director at Ohio State University, has said that if the N.C.A.A. pay ceiling were lifted and he were pushed to pay basketball and football student-athletes more than their full-ride scholarship packages, he would not expect to maintain the same number of sports. The chancellor at the University of Wisconsin, Rebecca Blank, has also said that her school would consider cutting sports programs altogether.Forcing the N.C.A.A. to pay student-athletes would undermine opportunities for the vast majority of them. It would create a winner-take-all system in which only a handful of top recruits would get a paycheck on top of earning a diploma debt-free.Similar problems would arise in the case of so-called third-party payments, in which student-athletes could be paid for things like endorsements. Major brands like Nike would pay top football and basketball talent at the biggest schools, while student-athletes in other sports or at smaller programs would be ignored. Currently, corporate funds go to athletic departments and are generally distributed among all sports; with third-party payments, those funds could instead mostly go directly to a few student-athletes, starving the rest.I am not opposed to young athletes who decide they would prefer to be paid cash to play sports. For those who think that a free education is insufficient as compensation for playing sports, there are other options: The National Basketball Association’s developmental league, for instance, offers $125,000 contracts to top high-school talent. Such athletes can also pursue a career playing for other domestic or overseas professional leagues.Millions of student-athletes devote their sweat, blood and tears to sports. Some play football and basketball; others swim, run cross-country, play soccer or compete as gymnasts. Only a fraction of them generate money for their schools. We must ensure that the N.C.A.A. is able to preserve its commitment to all of them.Cody J. McDavis is a student at the U.C.L.A. School of Law who played basketball for the University of Northern Colorado from 2012 to 2015.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementDoncaster Belles used to be women’s soccer royalty, champions of England and a fixture in the F.A. Cup final. Now, as investment floods into the women’s game, a new history is being written without them. CreditCreditAndrew Testa for The New York TimesSupported byBy Rory SmithROSSINGTON, England — Over the years, Sheila Edmunds has done pretty much everything for the Doncaster Belles. Half a century ago, she was among the group of friends who founded the club. For 25 years, she wore the team’s No. 8 jersey and, for a while, its captain’s armband.When she retired, she filled in wherever required: welfare officer, first-aid practitioner, physiotherapist. Now her official title is president and general manager. If that sounds like an executive role, an honorary sinecure, it is not.An hour or so before a game at the windswept stadium that the Belles now call home, Edmunds can be found in the simple wooden cabin that passes for a ticket office. At her back is an electric heater, on futile full blast to stave off the bitter cold. She welcomes fans handing over the £5 entrance fee warmly, as if each one is an old friend.In quiet moments, she might help out at the trestle table that serves as the Belles’ merchandising arm. After kickoff, she keeps one eye on the game as she totals up the day’s takings; it is easier this way, she says. She is the one, after all, who will have to enter it all into the club’s accounts later.There is more money in women’s soccer in England than there has ever been. Last summer, the country’s highest tier — the Women’s Super League (W.S.L.) — became, for the first time, fully professional, with a broadcasting arrangement with the BBC. England’s biggest clubs, including Manchester City, Chelsea and Arsenal, all have invested heavily in their women’s teams in recent years, spending not just on homegrown players but for high-profile imports, too. Manchester United, even, has finally joined the fray: It launched its women’s team, in the second-tier Championship, last year, and immediately set about recruiting an all-star roster.The effect has been seismic, not just in terms of results — Manchester City reached the Champions League semifinals the last two seasons and England’s national team finished third in the 2015 Women’s World Cup — but in terms of interest, too. More than 45,000 people attended last season’s women’s F.A. Cup final, and two million more watched it live on television.Little or none of that growth, though, has found its way to Doncaster; or, more accurately, Rossington, a small village on the outskirts of the town, where Doncaster Rovers Belles play their home games in the third tier of English women’s soccer.Crowds rarely number much more than a hundred here. There are no television cameras. Last summer, the club’s biggest sponsor walked away; its income now does not stretch far beyond the cash Edmunds sifts through in front of that electric heater.And yet this is the team that has, arguably, done more for women’s soccer in England than any other, a club that was synonymous with the sport for decades. In the 1980s and early 1990s, long before the professional clubs showed any interest in women’s soccer, the Belles were its pre-eminent force.Between 1983 and 1994, the Belles reached 11 of 12 women’s F.A. Cup finals, and won the trophy six times. The team won the first ever women’s national league title, in 1992, and regained the crown in 1994; it would finish as runners-up seven times in the following years.Back then, its players formed the backbone of the English national team. “At one point, we had seven or eight players in the squad,” said Gillian Coultard, who spent 21 years playing for the Belles in the team’s heyday, and picked up 119 appearances for England. For a long time, she was one of five players to have made a century of appearances for her country. The others were Bobby Moore, Bobby Charlton, Peter Shilton and Billy Wright. “It was a good quiz question,” she said.Doncaster, of course, was proud of the Belles: A small, tight-knit town on the edge of the South Yorkshire coalfield, it is not a place that attracts much national attention, or frequently enjoys much sporting success. The Belles changed that. “We won so much,” Coultard said. “The cup finals were on television. We felt like we represented Doncaster, and South Yorkshire. We kept the town at the pinnacle.”Edmunds remembers the club being asked to send representatives to have “afternoon tea with the Queen and Prince Philip” when they visited Doncaster. The players were guests of honor at the town’s Mansion House, the ornate Georgian home of the local authorities, on several occasions.“We never had any sexist stuff,” she said. “South Yorkshire people aren’t like that. It’s the sort of place where they acknowledge what people can do. They get behind you. There was a real pride at what we achieved.”There was broader, cultural recognition, too. The writer Pete Davies spent a year with the team in the early 1990s; his subsequent book, “I Lost My Heart to the Belles,” coupled with the club’s success, made the name famous. The playwright Kay Mellor used the book as source material for “Playing the Field,” a BBC drama that ran for five seasons in the 1990s.To many, at a time when women’s soccer received scant investment and commanded little attention, the Belles were the sport’s most prominent face. “They were the epitome of women’s football,” said Mike Blackham. Like most of the people who go to watch the Belles now, Blackham and his wife, Jane, have a personal connection to the club: A friend plays for the first team.That is testament to how the club’s horizons have retracted in recent years. As the fortunes of women’s soccer have risen, those of the Belles have ebbed. “The women’s game has changed,” Edmunds said. “It is more financially driven. We have been left behind a little bit.”In 2013, when the Football Association, the sport’s governing body in Britain, expanded the Women’s Super League to two divisions, Doncaster Belles were demoted to the second tier and Manchester City’s women’s team — far younger but, crucially, aligned with a Premier League behemoth — were promoted in their stead. Vic Akers, then the manager of Arsenal Ladies, described the decision as “morally scandalous.”Doncaster was promoted back to the top flight in 2015, but lasted only a season before being relegated again. It won the second division last year, its first trophy since 1994, but did not take up its place in the top tier: The F.A. had changed the licensing criteria, and the Belles — lacking a headline sponsor and a major men’s team to bankroll the club — could not meet the new requirements. “Financially, we could not do it,” Edmunds said.All but two members of the championship-winning side departed, many for Manchester United’s new women’s team. Neil Redfearn, the manager, left for Liverpool. The Belles decided against using the Keepmoat Stadium, the neat, modern venue that is home to Doncaster Rovers, the men’s team with which they have a mostly symbolic alliance, and set up instead in Rossington, where the two stands are little more than a few steps covered by a roof. Smaller surroundings, Edmunds said, would not be as “daunting” for the young players that now comprised the team.In Doncaster, the Belles’ fame endures, and so does the affection and esteem in which they are held. Edmunds, for example, is well-known enough in the town that, a few years ago, when she was awarded an honor in London for her contribution to sport, the local paper afforded her the ultimate accolade: It referred to her by only her first name.Blackham, who coaches a local junior team, finds that while young boys dream of Premier League stardom, the girls tend to have a different ambition. “They don’t talk about playing for Manchester City or Chelsea or Arsenal,” he said. “They want to play for the Belles.”There is some regret at the club’s diminished status — “the demise of it is very sad, because it was so unique,” said Coultard — but there is no resentment of the game’s authorities, no lingering anger at the Football Association for failing to curate the most famous women’s team of all. “That era has gone,” Edmunds said. “We do not want people to forget that history, because so many people put so much into it, but we do not dwell on it.”Instead, she said, she takes satisfaction in seeing all of the players who came through the club’s ranks who have gone on to play professionally, to play in Europe, to play for their country.The golden age of the Belles may have come and gone, Edmunds said, but the club still has a role to play. “You look at those players and think we must be doing something right,” she said. “We still contribute. There is real pride in that.”Those Belles may be wearing different jerseys now, playing for different clubs, but they still bear the stamp of the club she helped to create. They all add a little more sheen to the legacy. In Edmunds’s eyes, they are still Belles. “That’s what we have always said,” she said, turning back to the day’s takings. “Once a Belle, always a Belle.”Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.  @RorySmith AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyThe N.C.A.A. said on Saturday that it was appealing a Federal District Court’s decision this month that barring athletes from being paid beyond a scholarship and related costs violated antitrust law.“We believe, and the Supreme Court has recognized, that N.C.A.A. member schools and conferences are best positioned to strengthen and revise their rules to better support student-athletes, rather than forcing these issues into continuous litigation,” Donald Remy, the N.C.A.A.’s chief legal officer, said in a statement.Remy said the decision to appeal, by the N.C.A.A. and the major college conferences named as defendants in the suit, was unanimous.The ruling this month by Judge Claudia Wilken in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California was actually far more favorable to the N.C.A.A. than the plaintiffs, a class of Division I men’s and women’s basketball players and football players, had hoped.The suit, known as Alston after a lead plaintiff, argued that the N.C.A.A.’s rules barring payments to players — the center of what the association terms the collegiate model, and what is broadly known as amateurism — was illegal collusion. It asked the court to declare as much, and to eliminate all such rules, leaving it up to individual conferences to set caps independently if they so chose.Instead, while Judge Wilken agreed that the rules were illegal, she found that an alternative, in which the N.C.A.A. continued to restrict payments unless they were tied to education, was acceptable. Under her ruling, colleges could give athletes items like computers, but the N.C.A.A. could continue to bar them from receiving cash in express exchange for their athletic contributions.Judge Wilken cited a 2015 ruling from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in a similar case, in which a three-judge panel partially insisted that payment to athletes be “tethered to education.” The same appellate court — albeit probably three different judges — would hear this appeal.While the N.C.A.A. largely welcomed Judge Wilken’s finding when it was handed down, it said on Saturday that it sought more: to get the courts out of regulating college athletics as much as possible.“While the district court upheld the distinction between full-time students who play college sports and professional athletes, it erred by giving itself authority to micromanage decisions about education-related support,” Remy said.Jeffrey Kessler, a lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said of the appeal in a text message on Saturday morning: “We are not surprised. It was a major defeat for the N.C.A.A.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersGrowing up in an outer borough, when the outer boroughs were far from cool.To the Editor:Re “I Remember When Queens Was Lame,” by Barbara Brotman (Sunday Review, Feb. 17):In college, I can’t say I shouted from the mountaintops that I hailed from Queens. I wasn’t ashamed, but neither was I proud. Back in the day, I remember cutting high school and taking the subway to the Village to experience, if only briefly, a different slice of life. The city was grittier back then, literally with grime and pollution, but also with higher crime or just the sotto voce offers in Washington Square of “Hey, man, want some acid?” But I wouldn’t trade my Queens days for anything. Our unrivaled, however simple, cuisine — arguably the best pizza and bagels in town. Playing ball every day: basketball in the backyard of a friend who was lucky enough to have a hoop; football under Friday night lights in the supermarket parking lot, its stripes used to determine first downs; and baseball in the streets, where we relied on manhole covers, car taillights and the like for bases. And, of course, the great friends, alas too few of whom I’ve kept up with over the years.Neil G. BennettStamford, Conn.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaABU DHABI — Qatar forward Almoez Ali joined a small group of record-makers at the Asian Cup last week, becoming only the fourth player in the tournament’s history to score four goals in a single game. His exploits in his country’s 6-0 thrashing of North Korea were cheered by just one fan sporting the Gulf country’s colors.That was one more than team officials expected.That is because the Asian Cup is being played this month in the United Arab Emirates, one of the main players in the punishing Saudi Arabia-led blockade of Qatar that began in 2017 and already has led to inconveniences for visiting Qatari officials, visiting Qatari journalists and, clearly, given their tiny number, visiting Qatari fans. The looming specter of the political dispute has produced a surreal air around Qatar’s matches, one that is expected to be repeated at its showdown against Saudi Arabia on Thursday at Zayed City Sports Stadium.Because of the geopolitical implications, that match could be one of the most-watched games of the tournament, though it will most likely not include many, if any, Qataris in the stands. The official attendance figure for the Qatar-North Korea game on Sunday in Al Ain was announced as 452, though several people who attended said the actual number most likely was closer to 100. Similarly low attendance figures have been a feature of the tournament, Asia’s most important soccer championship, in its first two weeks.The one flag-waving fan in Qatar’s maroon colors Sunday was a South Korean woman who had traveled from her homeland to root for Qatar, according to Qatari officials. Two other unidentified men sat nearby behind a Qatari flag, a rare spot of color in a sea of white seats. The sparse crowd only avoided setting another tournament record, for the lowest attendance, because of two groups of fans bused in by North Korea’s delegation.The soporific atmosphere most likely will give way to something far different and far more political when Qatar and Saudi Arabia meet to decide the winner of Group E. The countries have not met on the soccer field since diplomatic ties between the countries were severed 18 months ago, but the game’s location in this Emirate capital adds another layer of tension.“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign-affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”Political intrigue large and small is nothing new at the Asian Cup. On Tuesday, Palestine played Jordan, which has been home to Palestinian refugees for over half a century. A day later, Iran faced Iraq. Yemen, which is on the brink of famine amid a prolonged Saudi-led assault on Houthi rebels, is among the first-time participants in the event.This year’s tournament also has been accompanied by significant issues in the soccer world. The A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, a member of the Bahraini royal family, has been assailed over his silence about the fate of Hakeem al-Araibi, a refugee soccer player of Bahraini descent who was detained in Thailand on the orders of Bahrain’s government. And the event is the latest staging point for discussions related to FIFA President Gianni Infantino’s desire to expand the 2022 Qatar World Cup to 48 teams, a move that almost certainly would require Qatar to share games with countries currently leading the blockade, as well as a simmering battle for the leadership of the A.F.C. Sheikh Salman faces two challengers: one from Qatar, and another from the U.A.E.But the main crisis at this year’s Asian Cup remains the ongoing blockade of Qatar. The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, which they have accused of financing terrorism, interfering in their domestic affairs and growing too close to Iran. The countries were especially incensed by Qatar’s support for a range of activists across the Arab world, including the political Islamists that other Gulf monarchs consider a threat to their rule.Qatar’s leaders have denied the accusations of interference and of financing terrorism, arguing that it is their country’s independence that has most angered their neighbors. But the blockade’s effects on the tournament is not difficult to spot.Saoud al-Mohannadi, a Qatari and the Asian Football Confederation’s senior official responsible for the tournament, was initially barred from traveling to the U.A.E. on the eve of the competition. Initially prevented from boarding a flight from Oman, he was allowed through a day later. Five journalists cleared to cover the event by the A.F.C. weren’t so lucky; they were turned back upon arrival, though one photographer was allowed in. (Saudi Arabia has 47 print reporters accredited for the tournament.)Local organizers and the Abu Dhabi Sports Council were not made available for interviews. Neither group responded to emailed questions related to the tournament.Complicating matters further is the tournament’s television agreement. Qatar’s beIN Sports holds the broadcast rights for the event, but several top hotels, including the guest rooms of the Fairmont, where A.F.C.’s official delegation is based, and the hotels adjacent to the stadiums refuse to air beIN’s lineup of channels.Since the start of the crisis, beIN’s broadcasts — matches for which it has paid hundreds of millions of dollars for the exclusive rights — have been pirated by entity known as beoutQ, which Qatar contends is based in Saudi Arabia. As it did during last summer’s World Cup, beoutQ is broadcasting the Asian Cup in its entirety, overlaying beIN’s logo with its own.Asian Cup organizers have issued statements of frustration and threats of legal action, with little effect. In Bahrain, Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al-Khalifa, a son of the country’s ruler, posted a video on Instagram this week of his reaction to his country’s last-minute triumph against India on Monday. His chosen broadcaster, made clear by the logo on the screen, was beoutQ. (The A.F.C’s president is a member of Bahrain’s royal family.)On the eve of the game, beIN launched a website that outlined evidence against the channel, which it describes as a Saudi-supported operation.The broader dispute has been visible inside stadiums, too; at several, the partnership between the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia in opposition to Qatar is on display in banners that display both countries’ flags and a set of shaking hands.What will happen on the field Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium remains anyone’s guess. At an under-19 game between the U.A.E. and Qatar in October, the Emirati captain refused to shake hands with his Qatari counterpart at the pregame coin toss.Qatari officials and players have tried to play down the political cloud hanging over their presence. They say they are focused on improving ahead of the next men’s World Cup, which Qatar will host in 2022.On Tuesday, Qatar’s players appeared to be in good humor as they ran out to practice around sunset at a local field in Abu Dhabi, joking and teasing one another as a group of Spanish coaches put them through their paces. Apart from having no fans present at its games, the team has not faced any issues with the A.F.C. and local tournament organizers, according to a spokesman for the Qatari soccer federation, Ali al-Salat. But the players were briefed to avoid discussing politics ahead of the Saudi Arabia match.“You might look at it as special, but in our case it’s not that special,” midfielder Salem al Hajri said in a short interview as he prepared to join Tuesday’s training session.Asked about the political implications of the game, Saudi Arabia’s captain and its coach both demurred, saying those thoughts were for others.“We are thinking exclusively on the sports part of the game tomorrow,” said Juan Antônio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach. “Whatever the surrounding issues, we are not entitled to talk about things off the field.”Al Hajri and his Qatar teammates are guaranteed at least one supporter. The South Korean woman at the team’s first two matches, Mary Lee, confirmed that she would attend. Her relationship with the team is a curious one; al-Salat said she has links to the Qatar embassy in South Korea.“We appreciate the support because she’s the only fan who holds the Qatari flag in the U.A.E.,” al-Salat said. In normal times, she would be joined by at least 2,000 Qatari fans, he said, but the regular flights between Qatar’s capital, Doha, and Abu Dhabi have also been shut down by the blockade.Qataris now need special clearance and two layers of vetting to travel into the Emirates, where many have family members. But without direct flights between the countries, fans interesting in traveling to the Asian Cup would be required to fly through another country — typically Oman or Kuwait — as the national team was required to do on its way here. (Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family who leads the soccer federation, has based himself in Oman and flies in for his team’s games.)Saudi’s soccer federation, meanwhile, has secured thousands of tickets for its games, but their fans’ presence has had little effect at a tournament notable for its paltry attendance figures. The lack of fans has created a strange atmosphere inside the stadiums, with loud music echoing around largely empty arenas and M.C.s who exhort those present to “make some noise.”Despite tickets priced as low as about $7, even neutral fans are staying away. Several migrant workers, a group that heavily outnumbers U.A.E. nationals in Abu Dhabi, said their biggest obstacle was not ticket prices or geopolitical intrigue but something far more basic: As one Nigerian taxi driver said, he was just too busy.“I’m always at work,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Ken BelsonATLANTA — Ten days after a controversial noncall marred the ending of the N.F.C. championship game, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell finally addressed it publicly, acknowledging that the officials had blown the call.“It is a play that should be called,” he said at his annual state of the league address on Wednesday. “Whenever officiating is part of any kind of discussion postgame, it is never a good outcome for us. We know that, our clubs know that, our officials know that.”Late in the fourth quarter in a tied N.F.C. championship game on Jan. 20, with New Orleans deep in Los Angeles territory, Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman hit Saints wide receiver Tommylee Lewis before he could attempt to catch a pass. Robey-Coleman could have been called for pass interference or helmet-to-helmet contact, but instead was called for neither.The Saints went on to kick a field goal but left enough time on the clock for the Rams to tie the score and send the game into overtime, where Los Angeles won.The league had refused to comment publicly on the play for more than a week, but Saints Coach Sean Payton said shortly after the game that Al Riveron, the N.F.L.’s director of officiating, had told him officials got the call wrong. Robey-Coleman was later fined for a helmet-to-helmet hit.“We understand the frustration of the fans,” Goodell said Wednesday before detailing the extensive contacts the league had with the Saints, including their owner, Gayle Benson.“Coach Payton spoke to Al Riveron, our head of officiating, immediately after the game,” Goodell said. “Al told him that is a play we want to have called. I have spoken to him. Troy Vincent, the head of football ops, has spoken to him. I have spoken to Mrs. Benson. The coach has also talked to the head of the competition committee, Rich McKay.”Asked if he had considered ordering the game replayed from the point of the missed call, Goodell said, “Absolutely not.” He also noted the league rule book states that the results of games should not be overturned because of routine officiating errors.Goodell said the league’s competition committee would consider changes to instant replay to address such calls, but he added that in the past there had been little appetite to allow replay officials to call penalties on plays where no flag was thrown. He also said he did not think adding an eighth official was a good solution.“I don’t think adding an official is an answer to all of the issues, and particularly this issue,” Goodell said.Goodell’s 40-minute question-and-answer session was dominated by the play in New Orleans, but Goodell also was asked about a number of other hot-button topics, including Colin Kaepernick; the effectiveness of the league’s Rooney Rule in diversifying coaching staffs; President Trump; the messy inheritance fight over the Denver Broncos; and league investigations of the players Kareem Hunt and Reuben Foster.The most pointed question invoked Atlanta’s past as a hub of the civil rights movement, and how history will judge Kaepernick’s continued absence from the league. Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, has filed a grievance accusing owners of colluding to keep him out of the N.F.L. because of his social activism.Goodell said the league office had no role in the personnel decisions of individual teams. “Our clubs are the ones that make decisions on players that they want to have on their roster,” he said, adding, “That is something we as the N.F.L. take pride in.”He also was asked if the league’s Rooney Rule, which requires teams to interview at least one minority candidate for head coach openings, was still effective. The rule was strengthened in December, but the number of minority coaches in the league has dropped precipitously after four black head coaches were fired after the season.Goodell said the league did not view the success or failure of the Rooney Rule, which was adopted in 2003, in one-year increments. He said the league was talking with coaches about how to provide greater opportunities to minority coaches, and announced that a quarterback summit would be held in June at Morehouse College, a historically black college in Atlanta, to train new coaches.The commissioner refused to take the bait when asked about President Trump, who said two years ago that the N.F.L. should allow more and harder hits. Goodell noted the irony of his being asked about officials throwing too many flags at a news conference dominated by criticism of a game in which a flag was not thrown, before saying simply that the N.F.L. strives for games to be officiated at the “highest level.”Asked about the ongoing fight in Denver over the inheritance of the Broncos, Goodell said that it was “sad when disputes like this occur,” but that he could not say much publicly because the league office could have to adjudicate the dispute.Finally, Goodell said league investigations into Foster and Hunt were continuing. Foster, a linebacker, was released by the 49ers after being arrested on domestic violence charges for a second time, then was signed by the Washington Redskins. Charges against Foster have been dropped, but Goodell said Foster still could be punished under the league’s personal conduct policy.Hunt, a running back, was released by the Kansas City Chiefs in November after TMZ published video showing him pushing and kicking a woman. He remains unsigned. A New York Times investigation revealed that the N.F.L., despite interviewing Hunt earlier in the year, failed to question him about the incident. Goodell said there had been a “tremendous amount of progress” made in the investigation in the last 30 to 60 days, though he did not detail what that progress entailed.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonTom Brady, the five-time Super Bowl champion quarterback of the New England Patriots, came to Massachusetts via San Mateo, Calif., and the University of Michigan.He is married to the supermodel Gisele Bündchen and has owned a luxury apartment in Manhattan, where their family spent much time in the off-season. He endorses UGG, the Australian apparel company, and he published a book about his life as a diet and health nut whose favorite dessert is a dairy-free avocado ice cream, a flavor not readily available at J.P. Licks or any other popular Boston ice cream haven.Despite all of this, which would figure to turn off the people in a region known, perhaps unfairly, for its insularity and, perhaps fairly, for its hatred of pretension, Brady is now the most favorite son of New England. How he managed to pull that off, to become bigger than Ted Williams and Larry Bird, and even Big Papi, David Ortiz, has more to do with timing, some key lifestyle decisions and a certain fight with the N.F.L. over deflated footballs than his mounting collection of Super Bowl rings.“If you were drawing a sports cartoon and it showed a train and each car in the train represented one of the recent Boston championships,” said Richard Johnson, the curator of the Sports Museum in Boston, “Brady would be the engineer in the front stoking the fire.”Fans in 44 American states mostly despise Brady and pray to the football gods that his Patriots never win another playoff game. But in New England, it’s almost impossible to overstate Brady’s exalted standing. Putting Brady on par with a Kennedy might be a stretch, but not a huge one.It’s also remarkable that at the end of a season that dawned with the potential for polarizing protests during the national anthem, sagging television ratings and other off-field controversies, it has instead all come back to Brady and his dominance. After nearly two decades, the N.F.L. remains his playground.Partly because of that, the people of the New England region, who largely adopt all Boston teams, are living through an era of unusually high accomplishment: Their professional teams celebrate championships from season to season — as in spring to fall to winter. But in Boston, it always matters to have been the one who started a movement. And like Paul Revere dashing on horseback to ignite a revolution, Brady led the charge that ushered New England sports into the 21st century, and it has been a procession of duck-boat parades down Boylston Street past Boston Common ever since.[An illustrated guide to the N.F.L. playoffs.]Brady’s Patriots won the franchise’s first Super Bowl title at the end of the 2001 N.F.L. season. That was about three years before the 2004 Red Sox reversed the curse with their first World Series victory since 1918, and long before the 2008 Celtics finally escaped Bird’s shadow and won their first N.B.A. championship in more than 20 years. And it was a decade before the 2011 Bruins won the franchise’s first Stanley Cup since 1972.Throughout that time, Brady’s Patriots kept winning. And while there have been other recent, treasured sports heroes in Boston, most notably the still ubiquitous Ortiz, consider this: When the origin story of Boston’s 21st century sports resurrection is told, whose name will be mentioned first?Brady managed to ingratiate himself to the locals quickly when he arrived in 2000. His first home, symbolically, was in Quincy, Mass., a diverse city-suburb where two New England institutions, Dunkin’ Donuts and Howard Johnson’s restaurants, were founded.He was a familiar sight back then, piling groceries in a cart and chatting with other customers at the Quincy Stop & Shop. Restaurants and bars there grew accustomed to seeing him on dates, and even grew protective of him when those outings attracted paparazzi.Another factor that made Brady not just a favorite son of the region but the focal point of a rebellious, us-against-them cause was the bizarre spectacle that came to be known as Deflategate. Not surprisingly, us-against-them has been ingrained in the New England DNA ever since a lot of tea ended up in Boston Harbor about 246 years ago.In 2015, when Brady and the Patriots were investigated by the N.F.L. for using deflated footballs to gain an unfair advantage — with Brady eventually suspended and, by association, labeled a cheater (in roughly 44 states) — New Englanders were outraged by what they saw as outsiders’ bias.“The allegiance to Brady is deep and all the more intense because of the shared feeling he was unfairly stigmatized,” said Doris Kearns Goodwin, the author, historian and longtime New England resident. “Deflategate put Brady’s entire reputation and legacy at risk. Fans here still battle the nonissue with fans elsewhere, and it makes us love him all the more.”Goodwin added that she was recently at a bar in the Philadelphia airport, and everyone except her and one other patron wanted Brady to lose on Sunday.During Deflategate, there was an infamous, ghoulish 2015 courtroom sketch made of Brady as he took part in a federal proceeding. Patriots fans were incensed that the handsome Brady had been rudely denigrated.The courtroom artist apologized repeatedly and created another, more favorable sketch.There are, of course, two other obvious reasons that Brady’s status in New England has been amplified, and they would probably bring him unbridled admiration in any pro sports community.He holds the records for most N.F.L. victories as a starting quarterback (207), most playoff wins (29), most Super Bowl victories by a player (five) and most Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Awards (four).That will breed a lot of loyalty. Brady, for example, is 41 and has been in the N.F.L. for 19 years. You might think that any fan who wanted a replica of his No. 12 jersey would have purchased one by now.Apparently not.Merchandise bearing Brady’s name was the top-selling N.F.L. apparel item this season, with the Boston market driving sales. Since the Patriots clinched their berth in Sunday’s Super Bowl, Brady merchandise has been selling faster — by 40 percent — than it did in the week before any of his previous eight Super Bowl appearances, according to Fanatics, the largest online seller of licensed sports merchandise.He is also married to one of the highest paid models in the world. There is little doubt that part of Brady’s crossover appeal is the understanding that he is the rare N.F.L. superstar whose spouse may be more famous than he is.Brady is chasing his sixth Super Bowl championship and seems to have secured his spot on the Boston sports version of Mount Rushmore. There is still room there for Williams, Bill Russell and (genuflect) Bobby Orr. Fans of Bird will make their case.But the only person who could possibly unseat Brady is Bill Belichick, who admittedly already has a face of stone. He first landed in New England as a teenager during a postgraduate year at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., then attended Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn.Realistically, no one is likely to eclipse Brady. Two years ago, a Boston cultural museum unveiled a Brady wax figure (next to dozens of nonsports icons of the area). The representation of Brady was deemed creepy, and elicited more ire and wrath than the unworthy courtroom sketch did.Which means only one thing: In five or 10 years, when civic leaders erect a Tom Brady statue, they better get the visage right. And drape him in his No. 12 jersey.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonLawyers for Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, and 14 other men charged with soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla., have filed a motion in Palm Beach County, Fla., to keep private all evidence in the case, which includes hidden camera video of the men inside a massage parlor over several days in late January.In the filing, the lawyers said the evidence had not been produced in discovery, and therefore should remain confidential. The lawyers added that their clients “dispute the position of the prosecutors that there may be a ‘victim’ of any offense at issue in these cases,” a suggestion that they do not believe sex trafficking was taking place at the massage parlor, as prosecutors have alleged.In asking the court to seal the evidence, the lawyers may be trying to prevent the evidence from leaking and becoming public, which could be embarrassing.Mr. Kraft, by far the most well-known defendant in the group, pleaded not guilty to two first-degree misdemeanor solicitation charges at the end of February. The prosecutors said Mr. Kraft, who is accused as a first-time offender, was unlikely to face jail time in this case.On Tuesday, the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County offered Mr. Kraft and the 24 other men who were similarly accused of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor called the Orchids of Asia day spa a chance to have the charges dropped if they agreed to do 100 hours of community service, take a class on the dangers of prostitution, get tested for sexually transmitted diseases and pay a fine.The men would also have to agree that if the case had gone to trial, the prosecutors would have won. This would effectively force them to admit guilt even though they have pleaded not guilty to the charges.It is unclear how many of the defendants have agreed to the terms to settle their cases.The motion regarding the evidence in the case may be a way for Mr. Kraft and the other defendants to signal that they are unwilling to accept the current deal offered by the prosecutors to have the charges dropped.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunThe Jets have come to the realization that if they could not beat Adam Gase, they might as well hire him.After a busy, 10-day coaching search that saw the team chairman Christopher Johnson and General Manager Mike Maccagnan interview eight candidates, the Jets decided on Wednesday to name Gase their next head coach, according to a person familiar with the deal who is not authorized to comment publicly about it.The hire was first reported by ESPN and NFL Network, and a formal announcement is expected to come on Thursday.Gase went 23-25 in three seasons with the Miami Dolphins in the A.F.C. East, reaching the postseason in just one of those years. But he was 5-1 against the Jets, including two wins in 2018.It is a pivotal hire for the franchise, which fired Todd Bowles on Dec. 30 after four playoff-less seasons that extended a postseason drought that started in 2011. But in quarterback Sam Darnold, who will be entering his sophomore season, the team believes it has a franchise cornerstone brimming with potential.Gase, 40, checked a lot of boxes for Johnson and Maccagnan, who led the search. He is a young but experienced coach with a reputation as an innovative playcaller. Most important for his new team, he is a quarterback guru, who received rave reviews for his work with players including Peyton Manning, Jay Cutler, and Tim Tebow — work that the Jets hope will continue with Darnold.Gase was considered a rising star in 2016, when he was hired by Miami as the youngest coach in the N.F.L. He had spent two seasons as the offensive coordinator for the Denver Broncos, who set N.F.L. scoring records and reached the Super Bowl with his creative, pass-heavy offense. As the Chicago Bears’ offensive coordinator in 2015, he helped Cutler reduce his interceptions and record a career-best passer rating.His breakthrough into head coaching, however, came with mixed results. Gase, who also called the plays for Miami, went 10-6 his first season and reached the playoffs — losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in a wild-card game — but the team failed to finish over .500 the next two years. Gase’s young quarterback, Ryan Tannehill, missed the entire 2017 season and five games in 2018. And with an injury-depleted roster this season, Gase received some credit for managing to keep the team in contention until the final month of the season.A protégé of Nick Saban, Gase did not play college football but started assisting on Saban’s staff as a student at Michigan State. When Saban later left for Louisiana State, Gase was the only staff member who left with him. And during the week leading up to the Super Bowl in 2014, Manning called Gase “the smartest guy I know.”Gase’s hiring caps a coaching search that carried a palpable sense of urgency. On Dec. 31, a day after the conclusion of the regular season, Johnson and Maccagnan outlined what they were looking for in the next coach, knowing that seven other teams were in the same boat. And the Jets quickly got to interviewing; the candidates included the former head coaches Jim Caldwell and Mike McCarthy; the coordinators Eric Bieniemy, Todd Monken, and Kris Richard; and the Baylor University coach Matt Rhule.Gase’s résumé stands out among those of past Jets coaches. He is the franchise’s first coach to be hired with any prior head coaching experience since Bill Parcells in 1997 and the first with an offensive background since Rich Kotite in 1995.While Johnson and Maccagnan did not rule out hiring another defense-minded coach, their remarks made clear that they were focused on finding someone who could mentor Darnold, the No. 3 overall pick in last year’s draft. And with the No. 3 pick yet again this year, and over $100 million in salary cap space this off-season, the burden is on Maccagnan, in the final year of his contract, to put together a roster that can finally compete for a division title.On Dec. 31, Johnson said he believed the Jets’ opening was an attractive one, and not only because of Darnold.“If you win here, you’re a freaking legend,” Johnson said. “That counts for something.”Gase will get the chance to find out.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia Mazzei and Ken BelsonPALM BEACH, Fla. — In this exclusive, image-conscious retreat where enormous hedges encircle grand mansions and valets park cars at the supermarket, wealthy residents pay vast sums to shield their private lives from view, even as they crave to be seen at the charitable events and black-tie galas that go on almost daily from November to May, a glittering time known as “the season.”The messier reality is that the history of this 18-mile barrier island, a playground for the rich for more than a century, is littered with stories of American aristocrats who failed to stay out of the local tabloids. Wall Street barons ran off with maids, star-studded couples scandalously divorced and, not surprisingly, high-priced escorts worked the upscale bars and hotels.The latest scandalous episode spilled into public view last week when Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots and a fixture in this haven of billionaires and millionaires, was charged with two first-degree misdemeanor counts of soliciting a prostitute at a massage parlor in the town of Jupiter, a 30-minute drive away. There, the police said they twice caught Mr. Kraft, 77, on video paying for sex with a woman.Mr. Kraft has denied the charges. But even the suggestion that a prominent sportsman, businessman and philanthropist might have sought company in a seedy massage parlor up the road has many residents wondering why a man worth an estimated $6.6 billion would risk his reputation so recklessly on a $79-an-hour massage.“You just would never hear of anything as sleazy as that in Palm Beach,” said Ronald Kessler, who 20 years ago wrote a book about the debauchery of the island’s wealthiest scions, most of it kept discreetly within the confines of Billionaires Row.Back then, news of call girls being arrested in Palm Beach was not unheard-of, he said. In the age of TMZ, cellphone cameras and the internet, it seems, residents have generally become more careful. And yet some still throw caution to the wind.“You can’t say, ‘What happens in Florida stays in Florida,’ because it never does,” said Carl Hiaasen, who writes extensively about the foibles of Floridians, but said he was surprised to see the news of Mr. Kraft’s arrest warrant. “The family is very philanthropic, and this time of year is the season,” he said. “You don’t expect to see them over on the mainland in a shopping center.”Most celebrities tend to be as discreet as they can, said Jim Ausem, a retired Las Vegas police officer who for 10 years worked security for the actor Burt Reynolds, a Jupiter-area regular until his death last year.“When they go into a public place, they’ll come in through the back door. They won’t park out front,” Mr. Ausem said. “There’ll be a private room set up, and nobody will know who’s there. That’s the way it is.”For the most part, the wealthy Northeast barons who own waterfront mansions and luxury condos in this storied part of Florida come to avoid the cold weather and high taxes back home. Though he lives in Boston and travels widely, Mr. Kraft, in his signature Nike sneakers and shock of gray hair, has become a regular, popping into charity events to write big checks and dining at Mar-a-Lago, the exclusive club owned by his friend President Trump.[Read: ‘The Monsters Are the Men’: Inside a Thriving Sex Trafficking Trade in Florida]Two weeks ago, Mr. Kraft was spotted at a sound check for another of his friends, the rock star Jon Bon Jovi, who was performing in a multimillion-dollar fund-raiser for the Everglades Foundation at the Breakers, a Gilded Age Palm Beach resort where Mr. Kraft stays in a condo when he is in town.The resort’s guests have included a who’s who of American royalty: The hotel dates back to when Henry Morrison Flagler, John D. Rockefeller’s partner in Standard Oil, was building railroads and resorts on Florida’s east coast. Over the years, J. P. Morgan, Andrew Carnegie and various Astors and Vanderbilts have stayed there.The resort is also a favorite of National Football League team owners, who have held their annual meeting there in March, off and on, for years. About a quarter of the owners in the league have homes in and near Palm Beach.That includes nearby Jupiter Island, a bastion of old money where secluded oceanfront mansions have separate service entrances: The Bush family vacationed there for decades. The nearby towns are also home to some of the world’s best golfers, including Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy and Rickie Fowler, as well as the golfing legends Jack Nicklaus and Greg Norman. Some of them have occasionally been spotted in a movie theater across the street from Orchids of Asia, the massage spa where the police say they videotaped Mr. Kraft.One of the attractions for millionaires to sunny Florida has nothing to do with the beaches: There is no state income tax, and the state’s homestead exemption caps property tax increases. That has proved to be a big lure in recent years for those who have made fortunes in finance. With money to burn, they have bought properties and built mansions on streets nicknamed Bankers Row.“They come here for the sun, fun and lower taxes,” said Joel Cohen, who owned an art and photo gallery in Palm Beach for years. “It’s one big rich people’s family.”Yet that has had the effect of pushing down the declining population, which is now about 8,750 residents. The ultra-wealthy, said Laurel Baker, the chief executive of the Palm Beach Chamber of Commerce, often knock down apartments and multifamily buildings and replace them with single-family homes, often very large ones. This has driven up property prices further, making Palm Beach even more exclusive.“One of the downsides is a starter home is three, four or five million dollars, which does not necessarily draw the boy scouts and girl scouts of America,” she said.Mr. Kraft pleaded not guilty on Thursday and requested a non-jury trial, according to a court filing by his defense lawyer, Jack A. Goldberger.He was not the only wealthy businessman charged in the massage parlor case. John Havens, former president and chief operating officer of Citigroup, and John Childs, founder of the private equity firm J. W. Childs Associates, were also among those named by the police, but so were lots of others, who ranged in age from 30 to 81. (Mr. Childs has denied the charges, and Mr. Havens has not commented on them.)“They come from all walks of life: There’s rich and poor, there’s young and old,” said Dave Aronberg, the state attorney in Palm Beach County who pressed charges on Monday. Mr. Kraft, he added, would not receive any advantages. “I can assure you that our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent.”Much is still not known about the women at the Orchids of Asia massage parlor, which police say was part of a human trafficking ring. There is no suggestion that Mr. Kraft or the other 24 people arrested knew that the women were working there against their will, as police contend.As for why wealthy businessmen with presumably plenty of options might frequent a cheap strip mall massage joint, that’s a question many locals have not been able to answer.“That is what just absolutely shocks me about this whole thing,” Mr. Ausem said. “For Robert Kraft to go in a place like this, for 69 or 79 bucks and give her a $100 tip — it just blows me away. ‘I can put a hat on, I won’t be recognized.’ I mean, it’s just so stupid.”For some veteran Palm Beach observers, the accusation of Mr. Kraft’s involvement in the tawdry business of paid sex is another example of how wealth can breed a sense of entitlement that blinds.“When you have that much money, you believe you are untouchable,” said Maris Kirschbaum, the president of Bbp Investigations, a private investigator in neighboring Broward County. “The billionaires are arrogant. They think they are bulletproof.”Alain Delaquérière contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperATLANTA — After the N.F.L.’s best season in years, Roger Goodell, the league’s commissioner, got his chance to crow on Wednesday afternoon ahead of its showcase event.“This season has demonstrated that there has never been a better time to be a part of the N.F.L.,” Goodell said. “Our game is getting better and better, and our engagement and popularity is unmatched in today’s media landscape.”Under Goodell, the N.F.L. has tried to be everywhere all the time. The combine, the draft and the minicamps have become manufactured events unto themselves; there are now games on Thursday nights and some, played in London, early on Sunday mornings; and most games have remained on network television even as other sports have largely moved their games to cable and now streaming.A year ago, the strategy was under stress. Then the emergence of a new crop of young stars and a largely controversy-free season combined to drive up television ratings and produce a spectacular weekend of conference championships, capping a winning streak that began with a surprisingly fervent auction for rights to the league’s least popular slate of games.Coming off the 2017 season, after television ratings had dropped 17 percent over the previous two years, the league entered the media market trying to sell the rights to “Thursday Night Football.” CBS and NBC had both said they lost money showing Thursday games, and they weren’t willing to pay much more than the $450 million combined they were paying each year.Then, as in 1993, when an audacious bid for N.F.L. rights ignited a scramble that sent their value soaring, Rupert Murdoch came to the rescue. Fox agreed to pay $660 million annually to show “Thursday Night Football.”Murdoch’s market-resetting bid came shortly after he agreed to sell the vast majority of his empire to Disney, leaving him with a significant need for marquee programming on his network. Also, there was real competition from a tech company.Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer, said in an interview in September that Fox did not submit the highest bid. A tech company did, he said, though he would not reveal which one.“We turned down higher bids,” he said. “When you put a game exclusively on digital, are you growing the distribution and availability, or are you limiting it, and to the extent how much? And for us, we weren’t sure we wanted to do that yet.”In other words, the N.F.L. stuck to its foundational game plan to be everywhere and accessible. After two seasons of turmoil, the league opted not to break away from its longstanding strategy, but instead doubled down on it.Plenty of dangers still lurk. Football’s concussion crisis threatens the viability of youth football. Colin Kaepernick’s collusion case against the league drags on, suggesting he has a chance to win, and attendance was down to its lowest level in eight seasons. Instead of Patriots quarterback Tom Brady or Rams Coach Sean McVay, the biggest topic ahead of the Super Bowl remains atrocious officiating. The league’s collective bargaining agreement with its players expires in two years, and negotiations will be tough.But Rolapp’s big bet paid off. Every time slot for N.F.L. games, including Thursday night’s, earned higher television ratings this season, a total gain of 5 percent.Incidents of violence against women continued to plague the league. The Kansas City Chiefs cut the Pro Bowl running back Kareem Hunt during the season after video showed him shoving and kicking a woman. The New York Times later reported that the N.F.L. failed to question Hunt about the incident during an interview earlier in the year.The San Francisco 49ers cut Reuben Foster after his second arrest on domestic violence charges in 2018, and three days later he was claimed by Washington, a move that garnered substantial criticism. TMZ also published video of Washington safety Montae Nicholson punching out a man.But Goodell and the N.F.L. limited their unforced errors. There was nothing like the drawn-out legal battle over deflated footballs in 2015 and 2016. And once the N.F.L. realized the opposition it would face if it pushed ahead with a rule mandating players on the field to stand during the national anthem, the league backed off.Young players like Patrick Mahomes, Baker Mayfield, Mitchell Trubisky and Saquon Barkley became stars in 2018, pointing the way to a post-Brady world. High-profile quarterbacks like Russell Wilson and Andrew Luck returned to form. High-octane passing offenses took over the league.It all came together in the conference championship games, which featured the four highest seeds and the four highest-scoring teams. Two veteran quarterbacks, Drew Brees and Brady, took on the best young quarterbacks, Jared Goff and Mahomes, in high-scoring shootouts that went to overtime.David Berson, the president of CBS Sports, which will televise the Super Bowl on Sunday, said fewer off-the-field stories were getting attention “because the on-field product is so compelling.” Whether Berson is correct or whether the league simply had a year with fewer controversies ultimately does not matter all that much to the league’s media partners because, as Berson put it, “The focus is on the football, and the football is really exciting.”There were blown calls and rules controversies, of course. The N.F.C. championship game hinged on an egregious no-call, and Brady and the Patriots also benefited from a questionable ruling and a rule that did not allow Mahomes — probably the league’s most valuable player — to get his hands on the football in overtime. But the arguments garnered more attention for the game, which was just what the league wanted.The question now is whether this fundamentally violent sport can be made safer. Before the season, the N.F.L. introduced a rule barring players from using their helmets as weapons when tackling. Six weeks into the season, its enforcement was essentially abandoned, underscoring how difficult it is to legislate between acceptable and unacceptable levels of violence.According to league statistics, concussions were down 29 percent in 2018, to 0.5 per game from 0.7. Jeff Miller, the N.F.L.’s executive vice president for health and safety, cautioned on a recent conference call that “there is no finishing line” when it comes to player safety, but touted the work being done to get players to wear better helmets and to present teams with targeted interventions to prevent concussions.The league’s own concussion data show that the number of concussions each year fluctuates, and that previous reductions were reversed in following seasons. The N.F.L. has also not been able to reduce the instances of A.C.L. and M.C.L. tears, ligament injuries that commonly end players’ seasons.The youth tackle football participation rate has been dropping for a decade, and now the high school tackle football participation rate is declining, too. Just one insurance company is willing to cover professional football leagues for head trauma, according to ESPN, and youth football leagues and school districts are facing insurance premiums that they are struggling to afford.In the off-season, the N.F.L. is likely to receive a ruling in the Kaepernick collusion case. His grievance, which was filed 15 months ago, still hasn’t been heard. It remains difficult for collusion to be proven, but if Kaepernick wins, he could be awarded tens of millions of dollars, and evidence uncovered in discovery and depositions could become public.Attendance in 2018 fell to its lowest level since 2011. This drop will be rectified in part in 2020 when the Los Angeles Chargers move from a 27,000-capacity soccer stadium to a 70,000-capacity football stadium, but Washington, Tampa Bay and Cincinnati all suffered big drops.The N.F.L. operates on two planes: the day-to-day of small crises and opportunities, and the issues that could take a bite out of the $15 billion-a-year league. Most things fall into the first bucket, with no chance of harming a league whose revenue inches upward each season because of television contracts signed earlier in this decade.Over the next decade, the N.F.L.’s ability to handle the changing media and technology environment and the mounting health and safety challenges is likely to determine whether it reaches its goal of $25 billion a year in revenue by 2027 and remains at the pinnacle of American sports.Arthur Blank, the owner of the Atlanta Falcons, is confident the league will continue to prosper. He believes the N.F.L. will receive even more money when contracts to telecast Sunday and Monday games expire after the 2021 and 2022 seasons because of “the number of ways the product is distributed these days,” he said.But the root of Blank’s confidence is the league’s longstanding strategy. “The core of it is still going to be over-the-air free television,” he said. “That’s not going to change.”Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Ken Belson contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinCAMBRIDGE, Mass. — One of the most infamous dropped passes in football history clanged off Dallas Cowboys tight end Jackie Smith as he lay in the end zone during Super Bowl XIII.Poor Smith. Forty years ago, he had only his bare hands to try to pull in Roger Staubach’s low pass. Had he played in a more recent edition of the N.F.L. playoffs, he almost certainly would have been wearing a pair of the sticky, silicone gloves that have transformed receivers’ mitts into virtual Spider-Man hands.The technological advances on the skin of those gloves have been so profound that they now enable receivers to snare passes their forebears never dreamed of catching, and in making the seemingly impossible possible, they may be changing the way football is played.The grippy polymer used on the new generation of gloves, said to be developed first by a Canadian wide receiver and a chemist in a Pakistan laboratory in 1999, is about 20 percent stickier than a human hand — according to a recent study by the M.I.T. Sports Lab performed at the request of The New York Times.The technology has made life easier for receivers at all levels, of course, and now it is rare for any player in search of a better grip — pass catchers, but also quarterbacks, running backs and tight ends — not to make them part of his standard equipment. Even defenders have taken to wearing them.“The gloves definitely help with the one-handed catches,” said Rasul Douglas, a cornerback for the Philadelphia Eagles who wears a Nike version. “You rarely see guys making one-handed catches without gloves on.”For those who have not played any football in the last 15 years, just touch a pair at a sporting goods store. It will be obvious why the gloves, now manufactured by several companies, are probably the most significant performance-related football equipment innovation since the advent of the cleat.“There’s no long-term statistical data that I’ve seen,” said Rich McKay, the chief executive of the Atlanta Falcons and the chairman of the N.F.L.’s competition committee. “But they definitely make some difference, there’s no doubt about that.”When a catch is made, the naked eye often sees only hands grabbing a ball. But what is happening on the palms of a receiver’s gloves is far more complex: the scientific principle of polymer adhesion and the miracle of a molecular chain of silicon and oxygen that creates polysiloxanes — viscoelastic substances commonly known as silicone rubber. Silicone is used to make a wide range of products, including caulk, kitchen tools and Silly Putty. Receivers use it to make highlight-reel plays.According to Sanat Kumar, a professor of chemical engineering at Columbia University and a specialist in polymers, the sticky property exhibited in a viscoelastic medium arises because the material acts as both a solid and a liquid.“It is macroscopically a solid,” Kumar explained of the silicone. “But at shorter, microscopic lengths, it is liquidlike.”That liquidlike property makes it sticky. Imagine a tight spiral thrown onto a hard surface like a road. It skips right off. Now imagine the same ball chucked into a large puddle of honey. The honey makes the grab. That is because the silicone surface of the gloves is, at the microscopic level, a viscous, honeylike liquid, and when a football comes in contact with it, the ball stalls in it the way it would on the surface of a gooey liquid, like the honey. The ball must work to get through it.Anette Hosoi, a co-director of the M.I.T. Sports Lab and an associate dean of engineering at M.I.T., is an expert on the interface of soft materials. She and her students conducted experiments on a pair of blue Under Armour UA F6 gloves last week to quantify their tackiness, basically measuring the force required to pull a leather Wilson football over both the gloves and over a bare hand, in both dry and wet conditions.The experiments were led by Sarah Fay, an M.I.T. doctoral candidate, who determined the gloves had a coefficient of friction of 1.64 when dry, which is roughly 20 percent more grip force than that of a bare hand (1.37 CoF).(Fay also noted that statistically and perhaps surprisingly, there is no significant difference between the friction of a wet glove and a wet hand.)Looking over a pair of Under Armour gloves in her office near the Charles River, Hosoi said the key to their performance was how soft and deformable the silicone is, meaning it covers and adheres to the tiniest variations on the surface of the ball, enabling it to almost melt into them.“Every time you get more deformable, you get a better adhesion,” Hosoi said after slipping on a pair and palming a leather football with her left hand.But as any coach or Eagles fan knows, adhesion alone does not guarantee catches. As Douglas, the Eagles cornerback, said before last week’s loss to the New Orleans Saints, “There’s people with gloves on who are still dropping passes every game.”The birth of the current generation of supergloves can be traced to a wintry day at the University of Ottawa in 1995. A receiver named Jeff Beraznik, who would later found Cutters Sports Gloves, noticed a star player from rival Calgary, Donnavan Blair, fielding practice punts with one hand while wearing a pair of orange gloves.The next year, Beraznik called Calgary’s equipment manager and learned that Blair was wearing glass cutters’ gloves — rubbery mitts designed to protect workers and do-it-yourselfers from cuts from glass edges. Those gloves, he found, could be purchased at any hardware store.Beraznik bought a pair and modified them to fit more snugly. They were not perfect, he said, but they were good enough, and once Beraznik’s teammates stopped making fun of him, they all wanted a pair of their own.“The whole team was, like, pass me a pair of those glass cutter gloves,” Beraznik said. Hence the name of his company, Cutters.Beraznik spent 18 months after college traveling the world seeking the perfect material, one that was stickier but also less bulky. He teamed with a safety glove company in Toronto called Midas, which sent him to a lab outside Karachi, Pakistan, to work with one of its chemists.With a football in hand, Beraznik made repeated trips to Karachi in the late 1990s, at times rolling up his sleeves to work on the formula — adding a little more of this and a little less of that. One day, he and one of the chemists arrived at the current formula, which was dubbed C-Tack.The modern glove, a huge improvement on the scuba diving gloves worn by N.F.L. receivers at the time, was born. Other manufacturers, including a company founded by Jim Sandusky (another Canadian football player), were working on similar products. Eventually Nike, Reebok, Under Armour and others produced their own.Even Lester Hayes, the former Oakland Raiders cornerback who was known for smearing his hands and body with a ridiculously sticky goop in the 1970s, was impressed. After he came across a pair of Cutters, he sent a handwritten letter to Beraznik.“This is the greatest invention since stickem,” he wrote.That product, known by its brand name, Stickum, was outlawed by the N.F.L. in 1981 because of the utter mess it made — sticking not only to users, but also to opponents, referees and the balls themselves. The silicone gloves are allowed because they leave no residue on the ball. According to Rule 5, Section 4, Article 4, Item 8 of the N.F.L. rule book, “players may wear gloves with a tackified surface if such tacky substance does not adhere to the football or otherwise cause handling problems for players.”The most obvious result of the gloves can be seen in the startling one-handed catches that came into fashion after Odell Beckham Jr. of the Giants made the most famous of all one-handed grabs against the Dallas Cowboys in 2014. Now almost everyone — in the N.F.L., college and even high school — has done it.In the Rose Bowl this month, Hunter Bryant, a sophomore tight end at the University of Washington, leapt for a high pass in the final two minutes of that game and palmed the ball with his gloved right hand. By using only one hand, he was able to extend his reach and fend off his opponent.In a telephone interview, Bryant said that like most players today, he has worn silicone gloves since he played youth football. But once he saw Beckham’s gloved acrobatic snares on Sundays, he began practicing them.“Everyone practices them now,” he said. “I’ve gotten pretty good at it.”Hunter also noted that he feels he can sometimes get a better grip with bare hands, but he wears those sticky gloves anyway. He doesn’t want to find himself lying in the end zone without the ball one day, wringing his bare hands the way Jackie Smith once did.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump’s national address lasted just nine minutes. Watch it here.Mr. Trump argued that there is a crisis on the southern border that must be addressed before the government shutdown — now the second longest — can end. He was at times misleading. Here’s what he said and how it stacks up against the facts.Here is the response from the Democratic Party leaders, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer._____2. It’s payday for federal workers. There’s only one problem: There’s no paycheck.The bank account of a single mother who works for the Census Bureau has dipped to negative $169. A federal corrections officer took a side job driving for Uber to make his mortgage payment. And a wildland firefighter sold his truck to pay next month’s bills.We talked to federal workers across the country who are furloughed because of the government shutdown and are wondering how long they can survive without pay._____3. Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign manager, discussed internal polling data from the 2016 race with a man tied to Russian intelligence, prosecutors alleged.The accusations came to light in a document filed by Mr. Manafort’s lawyers that was supposed to be partly blacked out — but contained a formatting error. Above, Mr. Manafort after a court appearance last year.Prosecutors for the special counsel Robert Mueller broke off a plea agreement with Mr. Manafort in November, accusing him of repeatedly lying to them. The details of their accusations have been largely kept secret until now.Separately, Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in Trump Tower during the 2016 campaign, was charged in a separate case showing her Kremlin ties. Prosecutors said she helped draft Russia’s “intentionally misleading” response in a fraud case._____4. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey refused to meet with John Bolton, the White House national security adviser, after he said Turkey must agree to protect Syria’s Kurds.The snub came a day after Mr. Erdogan commended President Trump’s decision to pull out of Syria. It makes an agreement between the two allies that much more difficult ahead of an announced U.S. withdrawal from Syria. Above, Mr. Bolton, left, with a Turkish government spokesman.For his part, Mr. Bolton has been walking a tricky line on the withdrawal plans. He walked back Mr. Trump’s promises for a speedy removal of 2,000 troops — but he was also at least partly responsible for the conditions that led to that sudden move in the first place._____5. U.S. carbon dioxide output rose by 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years, according to a preliminary estimate by a private research group.The uptick came even as a near-record number of coal plants across the country closed last year. Some of that increase was weather related, but another big reason for the change was the growing economy: Emissions from factories, planes and trucks soared.The report illustrates how difficult it could be for the country to make further progress on climate change, particularly as the Trump administration pushes to roll back federal regulations that limit greenhouse gas emissions._____6. Sears will remain open — at least for now.The retailer reached an 11th-hour deal pushing off the threat of liquidation. The company’s chairman now has an opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion offer to buy Sears and keep its 400 stores open.Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager, is now expected to bid for the company at a court-supervised auction next week. Already the company’s largest stockholder, he’s the only bidder seeking to maintain Sears as a “going concern.”The company’s largest creditors will ultimately decide whether they would recover more money by allowing Mr. Lampert to keep the company or sell it off piecemeal._____7. New York City plans to spend at least $100 million to ensure that undocumented immigrants and low-income residents can receive medical treatment.Mayor Bill de Blasio, above, said that the new plan would improve coverage for 516,000 people and aim to reach more of those who are eligible for health insurance but haven’t applied for it.The announcement was Mr. de Blasio’s latest jump into the national debates over immigration and health care, and builds on earlier efforts to position himself as a bulwark against the policies of President Trump._____8. Clemson defeated Alabama for the college football championship Monday night using some big plays.But the team’s performance had its roots in a gutsy decision Coach Dabo Swinney made back in September.Mr. Swinney substituted a freshman quarterback for a proven starter at a key moment. That decision made everything, our columnist writes._____9. “We canned a feeling.”Ease, comfort and pleasure are what millennials really want — and capitalism is into it.A new beverage called Recess is a case study in where those desires meet. Bubbles? Yes. CBD? Check. Sans-serif block font? Yeah! A knowing, nudging, creepily on-point Instagram presence? Obviously.Our writer, herself no stranger to millennial nu-irony, explains why the sparkling water infused with hemp extract is flying off the shelves at $29.99 for a six-pack._____10. Finally, here’s a look at a high-stakes science project.Scientists wanted to better understand the explosive reaction between water and lava, but doing experiments in active volcanoes is no picnic. So a group of researchers decided to brew up their own backyard lava.“We are not just crazy people mixing and seeing what happens,” a volcanologist said. “We are scientists and we want to quantify, and we do have an idea of what we are doing here.”Have a spectacular evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnRandolph Ross makes the unrecognizable recognizable.By Deb AmlenTHURSDAY PUZZLE — It’s Thursday, so it’s highly likely that you have spent some time staring at the grid, challenging your brain to untangle the tricky clues and unfurl the clever theme before you. This, of course, is a complicated and highly intellectual process that, if it could be boiled down to a single sound, would consist mainly of “What?” It took a while for me to understand Randolph Ross’s theme, but that’s par for the course on most Thursdays. When I finally got it, it was the kind of “Aha!” moment that reached around and slapped me in the back of the head. The slap is one of the best feelings in the world, at least to crossword puzzle solvers. I thought it was very clever, and Mr. Ross explains some further surprising constraints he set for himself in his notes below.It was all because of those sounds in the clues. And none of them were “What?”15A: “It holds water” is a phrase sometimes used to describe an idea that has some positive things going for it, but in this puzzle, we’re looking for something that really does hold water. The answer is STREAM BED, which was an ever-so-slightly awkward entry, in my opinion. I had STREAM_ _ D for the longest time, and the BE that completed the phrase were two of the last letters I filled in.19A: TIL that you need to rack up 501 points to win a game of DARTS. I don’t know how long that takes the average player, but I’m almost certain that the game was designed to keep people in the pub and buying more pints.30A: I’m not one for banning words or phrases from puzzles, but the phrase AH SO stuck in my craw. It was used in the old Charlie Chan movies (where Chan was played by an white actor and his way of speaking was racist to say the least), and I can remember when it was also used outside of movies to demean Asian-Americans. Yes, it’s not clued that way (“‘I can see clearly now’”), but how many people in 2019 really say “AH SO” when they understand something? I’d be much more likely to say “Ah, O.K.” or “Oh, O.K.”38A: I’m ashamed to say that I didn’t really learn how to take care of my car until midlife, but when you are trying to play catch up in that way, you tend to remember these things. The air in tires is measured in pounds per square inch, which is abbreviated as P.S.I.57A: Read that as U.N. VOTE, not UNVOTE. 6D: If you are from New York City, hand up if you confidently scribbled or typed M.T.A. in this slot because we have an L line in our subway system and we also have a tendency to believe that New York is the center of the universe. But look at the clue a little closer: The L is in quotes. This should be read as “el,” which was abbreviated from the word “elevated” until (warning: joke ahead) even that got to be too much, so Chicagoans abbreviated it further to simply “L.” The answer is C.T.A., short for the Chicago Transit Authority.11D: This clue — “Thunder, but not Lightning” — could have been much trickier if the word Lightning hadn’t been capitalized, but the editors aren’t that cruel, at least not on a Thursday. This is a “veiled capital” clue, which is covered in our solving guide in the “Cracking the Harder Clues” section. This type of clue hides a proper noun, which would have a capitalized first letter, at the beginning of the clue sentence, which would also be capitalized. So the Thunder is not an atmospheric rumble, it’s an N.B.A. TEAM, whereas the Lightning is not.56D: Tegan and SARA are identical twins and an indie pop duo from Calgary, Alberta.Mr. Ross has put together an interesting set of word pairs that also happen to be real things, like “Blue jay.” The theme clues have two parts: The first part is an adjective and the second part is a noun. Yes, I know a lot of phrases are made up of adjectives and nouns, but bear with me. We’re not told what we’re supposed to do with these adjectives and nouns, and you may be stuck wondering about that for a while, but this is where that slap in the head comes in.It turns out that those nouns are homophones for letters of the alphabet. So “jays” stands for “J’s,” and the color “Blue” indicates two things that begin with the letter J that are blue. For example, the answer to “Blue jays,” is JASMINE AND JEANS, which, on the surface, sounds like a somewhat offbeat perfume. But if you put “blue” before each of those J words, you get BLUE JASMINE and BLUEJEANS.Similarly, at 26A, the entry for “Honey bees” is BADGERS AND BEARS, because the animal kingdom has both HONEY BADGERS and HONEY BEARS. There are three more theme entries, but I’ll let you find them.The theme entries started with JASMINE AND JEANS. I noted this would make a 15-letter entry with a cute clue (“Blue jays”) that could be paralleled with “Dry eyes,” “Honey bees,” “High seas,” and “Green peas.” Coming up with four 15-letter entries and a 9-letter entry for the middle was a lot for a daily puzzle, but I didn’t want to give any of them up and I thought the challenge to craft a 72 word grid that could hold them all would be something I wanted to try. To make it even harder for myself, I kept the parts of each pairing in alphabetical order.Designing the theme entries this way probably caused me to have a few more abbreviations than I would have liked, which may displease some solvers. I think the trade-off for an abundance of long theme entries was worth it in this puzzle. I know sometimes it’s not, and a constructor should knock out the weakest theme entry for the sake of the rest of the grid; but I managed to get a real tight theme and the personal constructing pleasure of crafting an interlock that held so many long answers.RESAND was also an entry I didn’t particularly like — it’s not a word most, if any, solvers would use or hear. I spent a long time trying to get rid of it. However, when I thought of the clue “Smooth over” I thought that would compensate for the not so great “re” word. RSVPED and NBA TEAM, with their consecutive consonants both got me out of trouble in the grid. I also came up with the original UN VOTE to help me complete the fill.This was a fun crossword constructing exercise for me. I hope it’s also an “aha moment” for solvers when the theme answers are discovered.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA nasal spray version of the drug ketamine has shown promise as an antidepressant, even if its properties still aren’t well understood.By Benedict CareyOf the 16 million American adults who live with depression, as many as one-quarter gain little or no benefit from available treatments, whether drugs or talk therapy. They represent perhaps the greatest unmet need in psychiatry. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved a prescription treatment intended to help them, a fast-acting drug derived from an old and widely used anesthetic, ketamine. The move heralds a shift from the Prozac era of antidepressant drugs. The newly approved treatment, called esketamine, is a nasal spray developed by Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., a branch of Johnson & Johnson, that will be marketed under the name Spravato. It contains an active portion of the ketamine molecule, whose antidepressant properties are not well understood yet. “Thank goodness we now have something with a different mechanism of action than previous antidepressants,” said Dr. Erick Turner, a former F.D.A. reviewer and an associate professor of psychiatry at Oregon Health & Science University. “But I’m skeptical of the hype, because in this world it’s like Lucy holding the football for Charlie Brown: Each time we get our hopes up, the football gets pulled away.”The generic anesthetic is already increasingly available for depression, at hundreds of clinics around the country that provide a course of intravenous treatments, and studies suggest it can help treatment-resistant people. It often causes out-of-body and hallucinogenic sensations when administered; in the 1980s and 1990s it was popular as a club drug, Special K. The cost for these treatments typically is out of pocket, as the generic anesthetic is not approved by the F.D.A. for depression. In contrast, esketamine likely would be covered under many insurance plans, and its side effects, though similar to those of generic ketamine, are thought to be less dramatic. The recommended course of the newly approved drug is twice a week, for four weeks, with boosters as needed, along with  one of the commonly used oral antidepressants. F.D.A. approval requires that doses be taken in a doctor’s office or clinic, with patients monitored for at least two hours, and their experience entered in a registry; patients should not drive on the day of treatment. Esketamine, like ketamine, has the potential for abuse, and both drugs can induce psychotic episodes in people who are at high risk for them. The safety monitoring will require doctors to find space for treated patients, which could present a logistical challenge, some psychiatrists said. The cost for a one-month course of treatment will be between $4,720 and $6,785, said Janssen, and experts said it will give the company a foothold in the $12 billion global antidepressant market, where most drugs now are generic. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The approval of esketamine marks a new approach to treating serious mood problems, experts said. Prozac and similar drugs enhance the activity of brain messengers such as serotonin; they are mildly effective, but they take weeks or months for their effects to be felt, and for many patients they provide little or no relief from depression. In contrast, the ketamine-based compounds — several others are being developed — work within hours or days, and are effective in some people who are considered “treatment resistant,” meaning they have not benefited from other antidepressants.“These are exciting times, for sure,” said Dr. Todd Gould, an associate professor of psychiatry in the University of Maryland School of Medicine. “We have drugs that work rapidly to treat a very severe illness.” Dr. Gould was not involved in the Janssen study but has identified a metabolite, or ketamine breakdown product, that could be developed into another drug. Experts with long experience in treating depression were encouraged by the news, but also chary. The effectiveness of the previous class of antidepressants such as Prozac and Paxil was vastly exaggerated when they came on the market. And the results of esketamine trials, which were paid for and carried out by Janssen, were mixed.In each trial submitted, all patients were started on a new antidepressant drug, and given a course of esketamine treatment or a placebo. In one monthlong study, those on esketamine performed better statistically than those on placebo, reducing scores on a standard, 60-point depression scale by 21 points, compared to 17 points for placebo. But in two others trials, the drug did not statistically outperform placebo treatment. Historically, the F.D.A. has required that a drug succeed in two short-term trials before it is approved; the agency loosened its criteria for esketamine, opting instead to study relapse in people who did well on the drug.In that trial, Janssen reported that only about one-quarter of subjects relapsed, compared to 45 percent of subjects who received the placebo spray. All the subjects had been given a diagnosis of treatment-resistant depression, or T.R.D., having previously failed multiple courses of drug treatment. “We’ve had nothing new in 30 years,” said Steven Hollon, a professor of psychiatry and behavior sciences at Vanderbilt University. “So if this drug is an effective way to get a more rapid response in people who are treatment resistant, and we can use it safely, then it could be a godsend.”One question that will need to be answered is how well esketamine performs in comparison to intravenous ketamine. Theresa, 57, an adjunct professor of English in New York, who asked that her last name be omitted to protect her privacy, has lived much of her life with deep depression. She tried a course of I.V. generic ketamine last summer, at a local clinic, which  typically entails a half-dozen infusions, given over a couple of weeks, for about $500 apiece, with follow-up “booster” treatments as needed.“I remember floating, I was really high,” she said. “I was tripping on sounds, textures and shapes, that was very much a part of it.” The first infusion provided no relief, she said. But after the third or fourth, she noticed a satisfying “shift” in her underlying mood. “It’s a hard thing to describe. I was still anxious, but I felt somehow more solid, like something gelled within me, and my husband has noticed it, too.”Dr. Glen Brooks, the founder and medical director of NY Ketamine Infusions, a clinic in downtown Manhattan, said he has treated some 2,300 people, of all ages, with intravenous ketamine, the generic anesthetic. His clients had received a variety of diagnoses, including post-traumatic stress, anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive disorder, as well as depression.“What they all have in common is that other medications have failed,” Dr. Brooks, an anesthesiologist, said. “They’re hopeless, and they think, ‘Nothing else has worked, why should this?’” He said that, in his experience, the infusions quickly reduced symptoms for teenagers and young adults, but seemed to be less effective for people over 50.The data that Janssen presented to the F.D.A. likewise suggested that esketamine was less effective in people aged 65 and older, barely better than placebo treatment.Ketamine was developed more than five decades ago as a safer alternative to the anesthetic phencyclidine, or PCP, and is used worldwide, in operating rooms, on the battlefield and in pediatric clinics. The World Health Organization has listed ketamine as one of its essential medicines since 1985.By the 1990s, interest turned to the drug’s potential to combat depression, when a government scientist named Phil Skolnick argued that targeting glutamate pathways — the primary “excitatory,” or neuroactivating, brain processes — could produce antidepressant effects. In 2000, a team of researchers at Yale University and the Connecticut Mental Health Center, led by Dr. Robert M. Berman, reported that doses of ketamine provided quick relief to seven people with depression. The field took off in 2006, when a team at the National Institute of Mental Health led by Dr. Carlos Zarate Jr. reported that 18 treatment-resistant people who received the drug intravenously reported that their despair lifted within hours. “What seems remarkable is that the drug also seems to help domains other than depression, like anxiety, suicidal thinking, and anhedonia” — the inability to feel pleasure — said Dr. Zarate, chief of the N.I.M.H.’s experimental therapeutics and pathophysiology branch. “It seems to have more broad effects, on many areas of mood.” The apparent ability of ketamine to blunt suicidal thinking is particularly compelling, and Janssen is pursuing this indication for esketamine. In jails and psychiatry wards, suicide is an acute risk for people in crisis, and a fast-acting drug could save many lives, doctors said. For now, no one knows whether esketamine, or any of the other ketamine-based compounds being studied, are any more effective than the generic anesthetic itself — or, for that matter, whether the out-of-body and hallucinatory “side effects” are in fact integral to its antidepressant properties.“For that, we will need head-to-head studies,” Dr. Zarate said. “And we don’t have those yet.”An earlier version of this article misstated the cost of treatment with esketamine. The correct cost is between $4,720 and $6,785, not between $2,360 and $3,540.Benedict Carey has been a science reporter for The Times since 2004. He has also written three books, “How We Learn” about the cognitive science of learning; “Poison Most Vial” and “Island of the Unknowns,” science mysteries for middle schoolers.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonARLINGTON, Tex. — With less than three minutes remaining in a tight N.F.L. playoff matchup with the Seattle Seahawks on Saturday night, Dallas quarterback Dak Prescott made the most memorable play of his three-year career. It couldn’t have come at a better time for the Cowboys.With his team leading by 3 points and looking to put the game out of reach, Prescott took the snap on third down at the Seattle 16-yard line, 14 yards from a first down. Settling for a field goal would give the Seahawks a chance to win. Dallas needed that first down.Seattle’s defense was set up for a pass, so Prescott took a few steps back, then charged forward. He found the seam and scooted past the first-down marker. He was tripped up around the 3-yard line, did a somersault and landed just short of the goal line. Two plays later, he again ran the ball, this time for a touchdown that gave his team a 10-point cushion — just enough for the Cowboys to hold on for a 24-22 victory. It was the first playoff win for Prescott and the Cowboys’ first postseason victory in four years.Run @Dak Run! #WPMOYChallenge + Prescott#FinishThisFight pic.twitter.com/ralOsZ63MQ“He took it on his shoulders,” the Cowboys’ owner, Jerry Jones, said of Prescott. “He made plays that put us in a position to come out like we did. That’s what you want from your quarterback.”Jones, Prescott and the Cowboys will face the Rams in Los Angeles next weekend in the divisional round of the playoffs.It won’t be easy. The Rams are even more dominant at home than they are on the road.Everything seems to be bigger in Texas, including expectations for the Cowboys. In football-mad Texas, Cowboys fans, rightly or wrongly, view anything but a championship as a lost season.The only problem is the Cowboys haven’t won a Super Bowl since 1996. Fans in places like Cleveland and Minnesota would love to have this problem. But Cowboys fans know that their team’s win on Saturday was just its fourth playoff victory since Jones collected his last Vince Lombardi trophy.Over that time, quarterbacks like Chad Hutchinson, Quincy Carter and Jon Kitna have failed to lead the team back to the promised land. Tony Romo, who lasted a decade, led the Cowboys to the postseason, where his teams flamed out.Enter Prescott. Jones, who is famously involved in player personnel decisions, signed off on choosing Prescott in the fourth round of the 2016 draft. Jared Goff (Rams), Carson Wentz (Eagles), Paxton Lynch (Broncos) and several other quarterbacks were drafted ahead of Prescott.Thus far, Prescott, 25, might be the best of the bunch. Goff has gaudier passing statistics, but Prescott has been clutch, with 15 game-winning drives, tied with Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson for most in a quarterback’s first three seasons. Like Wilson, Prescott can run the ball. He scored six rushing touchdowns in each of his three seasons.Of course, a big part of Prescott’s success depends on running back Ezekiel Elliott, who has led the league in rushing two of his three first seasons. On Saturday, Elliott ran for 137 yards and a touchdown and caught four passes for 32 yards.Prescott was solid, completing 22 of 33 passes for 226 yards and a touchdown. After three quiet games, wide receiver Amari Cooper came alive with 106 receiving yards. Wide receiver Tavon Austin played a key role, setting up one score with a 51-yard punt return.But Cowboys fans will remember Prescott’s run up the middle. Elliott called his performance “legendary,” which even by Texas standards seemed to be a stretch.“I’m three years in,” Prescott said sheepishly. “For him to say that, I’ll have to tell him not to say that again, or wait until later.”Later might be next weekend. The Rams’ defense ranked in the middle of the league in points given up. But they scored more than 500 points this season. Goff has a top-ranked running back behind him in Todd Gurley, as well as a selection of fleet-footed receivers.The Cowboys defense, led by linemen Randy Gregory and DeMarcus Lawrence, and rookie linebacker Leighton Vander Esch, gave up the seventh fewest yards per game this year.It will be up to Prescott, though, to figure out how to outscore the home team. Otherwise, Saturday’s victory will fade from view and his gutsy run forgotten, something Prescott seems to understand.“My goal is bigger than one playoff game,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Texans, Cowboys, Ravens and Bears are all favorites at home, but there may be some upsets lurking. Look out for the Colts.By Benjamin HoffmanIt was a race to the finish for teams like the Colts, the Ravens and the Eagles, but there is no time to celebrate as they all now have to back up their N.F.L. playoff positions by trying to beat fierce competition. The weekend’s wild-card matchups will be spread over two days, with a trip to the divisional round on the line.[Read: Tarik Cohen Makes Football Fun Again in Chicago]Here are our predictions for how the games will sort out, both in terms of who will win and who will win against the spread.Last week’s record against the spread: 11-5Final regular-season record: 139-111-54:35 p.m. Saturday, ESPN and ABCFrom 1990 to 2017, only three teams started the season 0-3 and made the playoffs. This season’s Texans (11-5) not only accomplished that feat, but, entering Week 17, they were also in contention to have the best record in the A.F.C.The turnaround is nothing short of remarkable. It is a testament to the quality of the team’s defense and the star power of its quarterback, Deshaun Watson, and No. 1 wide receiver, DeAndre Hopkins. But to join the 1992 San Diego Chargers as the only teams since 1990 to win a playoff game after starting 0-3, the Texans will have to get through Indianapolis, which had a worse start to overcome: 1-5.The Colts (10-6) were 9-1 after their terrible start, joining the 2015 Kansas City Chiefs as the only teams since 1990 to make the playoffs after such a poor start. And they did it with quality play all over the field, finishing with the N.F.L.’s fifth-ranked scoring offense and its 10th-ranked scoring defense.Indianapolis won on the road in Houston in Week 14, ending the Texans’ nine-game winning streak, thanks to an outrageous effort from T.Y. Hilton, who had 199 receiving yards. After that game, Hilton was not shy about his ability to succeed at Houston’s NRG Stadium.“This is my second home, man,” Hilton said with a laugh. “This is my second home. I don’t know. Every time I come here, I just go off. I don’t know what it is.”Hilton wasn’t wrong. In his seven career trips to Houston, he has averaged 133 yards a game and scored seven touchdowns while the Colts have gone 5-2. Indianapolis also benefits from a fully operational Andrew Luck, who went from three years of battling shoulder woes to attempting a career-high 639 passes this season — 39 of which went for touchdowns. The team has an emerging star at running back in Marlon Mack, and a touchdown machine at tight end in Eric Ebron. And its defense got a breakout year from the rookie linebacker Darius Leonard, who was snubbed from the Pro Bowl but managed an N.F.L.-leading 163 tackles to go with seven sacks, two interceptions and two fumble recoveries.The Colts don’t typically travel well, but Houston seems to bring out the best in them. They should have the upper hand on Saturday.Pick to win: ColtsPick against the spread: Colts +1.5 8:15 p.m. Saturday, FoxEzekiel Elliott won his second rushing title this season — in just his third year in the N.F.L. — despite sitting out Week 17. A dominant running back, he expects to shoulder the load for the Cowboys (10-6) in the playoffs, so the rest was welcome.“Just knowing that we’re going into these playoffs, I’m going to have the highest workload I probably had all season,” Elliott told reporters. Since Dallas was 6-1 in the seven games that Elliott carried the ball 20 or more times this season, and the Seahawks (10-6) allowed an ugly 4.9 yards a carry from opposing running backs, keeping the ball in Elliott’s hands is probably a good strategy. With Elliott, Dak Prescott and Amari Cooper all carrying the offense at different times this season, it’s easy to see why so many people focus on that side of the ball. But the Cowboys are in the playoffs largely because of a defense that has been retooled into something formidable. It allowed the sixth-fewest points in the N.F.L., was the No. 5 rushing defense, and while the secondary gave up more yards than it would have preferred, it became a far more formidable unit with the help of Kris Richard, a defensive backs coach who was one of the architects of Seattle’s Legion of Boom defense.Seattle probably deserved more attention for its play this season than it received. Largely written off in the preseason as a team that had reached the end of its contention window, the Seahawks easily qualified for the playoffs for the sixth time in seven seasons.Linebacker Bobby Wagner is still among the game’s best defensive players, and Russell Wilson managed to let the offense become more run-focused while still throwing 35 touchdown passes. And, as always, the Seahawks were a true force to be reckoned with at home. But this game is in Dallas, and expecting a team that was 4-4 on the road to win there seems unrealistic. Pick to win: CowboysPick against the spread: Cowboys -21:05 p.m. Sunday, CBSWith Lamar Jackson at quarterback, the Ravens (10-6) were so dominant running the ball that the total of 159 yards they managed in a Week 16 win over the Chargers (12-4) was actually the team’s low point. It is a style of play that would be more typical of the 1940s than today’s N.F.L., but the Ravens’ run-first approach under Jackson led to a 6-1 finish to the regular season, with a series of opponents walking away wondering what just hit them — including the Chargers, who lost to Baltimore at home, 22-10.[Keeping Score: Philip Rivers Doesn’t Need a Ring to Be Great]“We couldn’t get them off the field on defense,” Chargers Coach Anthony Lynn said after the game. “And we couldn’t stay on the field on offense. We got outplayed. We got outcoached. It’s just that simple.”It is hard to figure out what was more dominant once Jackson took over: Baltimore’s running game, which generated 1,607 yards in seven games, or its run defense, which allowed 429. Now the Chargers get a second crack against them, and while slowing Jackson and Gus Edwards is probably unlikely, Los Angeles can at least hope to generate more than the 10 points it managed at home in Week 16.There is some room to pass against the Ravens — Patrick Mahomes and Baker Mayfield each threw for more than 300 yards against them in the season’s second half — but the Chargers should proceed with caution as Baltimore generated 10 turnovers in its final six games.The Chargers had a terrific season, which taken in totality was more impressive than Baltimore’s. But unless they figure something out based on the film of their fairly humiliating loss two weeks ago, quarterback Philip Rivers may have his season end early once again.Pick to win: RavensPick against the spread: Ravens -2.54:40 p.m. Sunday, NBCThe Eagles (9-7) weren’t even supposed to make the playoffs after they fell to 6-7 and lost quarterback Carson Wentz to a serious back injury. Now they enter wild-card weekend on a three-game winning streak, hoping they can recreate the success of last season, when they entered each playoff game as an underdog and still won the Super Bowl.It is a great story regardless of how it turns out, and the backup quarterback Nick Foles deserves a great deal of credit for revitalizing an offense that had often looked stagnant under Wentz. This time around, the Eagles appear to be underdogs not just in name, but also in terms of overall talent compared with the Bears (12-4).Chicago rode its suffocating defense and a good-enough offense to the third-best record in the N.F.C., and its formula of forcing turnovers and running the ball tends to play well once January rolls around. The Eagles might not have to contend with Chicago’s best defensive back, Eddie Jackson, who is questionable with an ankle injury, but the Bears still have plenty of defenders who should give Foles nightmares, including Khalil Mack, Akiem Hicks and Kyle Fuller. Chicago’s offense is not nearly as advanced as its defense. Mitchell Trubisky is a tentative passer, but Jordan Howard and Tarik Cohen have the ability to grind games out on the ground. Because the defense scores so much on its own, the Bears finished with the ninth-most points in the N.F.L. despite being ranked 21st in total yards. By no means should Philadelphia be written off in this game, as the Eagles have a championship-winning defense in place and an offense that is on a hot streak. But beating one of the top teams in the N.F.L., on the road, is likely out of the Eagles’ reach.Pick to win: BearsPick against the spread: Eagles +6Kansas City, New England, New Orleans, Los Angeles (Rams)All times are Eastern.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaNot so long ago the idea of merely setting foot in the United States would have filled FIFA’s leaders with dread. The idea of holding an important meeting there would have been rejected as absurd.That was because a sprawling corruption indictment by the United States Department of Justice in 2015 had threatened the very existence of FIFA, the governing body of world soccer. The investigation had produced the dawn arrests of more than a dozen top power brokers in the sport and eventually led to the ouster of some of the organization’s most powerful figures. It left others fearful of traveling to the United States for any reason, lest they risk being picked up by the authorities.Yet this week, almost four years later, FIFA is bringing the members of its governing council — a body that, in an earlier incarnation, was accused by the American authorities of engaging in graft schemes dating back decades — to United States soil for the first time since the scandal broke. The 37-member body, an expanded group now known as the FIFA Council, will hold a meeting in Miami on Friday to discuss, among other things, a significant expansion of the 2022 World Cup and a multibillion-dollar plan for a new World Cup-style competition for clubs.The site of the meeting, FIFA says, is the latest sign that it has moved on from its corrupt past.“It’s probably fair to say that there is a symbolic significance for the FIFA Council to meet in the U.S.A. for the first time since 2015,” FIFA, which is based in Zurich, said in a statement.Four years ago, images of police officers leading soccer officials out of a luxury Swiss hotel in two separate dawn raids gripped the sporting world, unleashing a crisis that has cost FIFA millions of dollars and led to years of turmoil. Dozens of soccer officials, businessmen and companies have since pleaded guilty to charges in United States courts; others are fighting extradition; and two men, including the former head of South American soccer, were jailed after a 2017 trial in New York. The crisis also led to the ouster of a number of executives not named in the indictments, including FIFA’s longtime president at the time, Joseph S. Blatter.While there is little sign another blockbuster raid is in the offing, United States authorities’ interest in FIFA has not dimmed. Multiple defendants who have pleaded guilty in the case have not yet been sentenced, with prosecutors again agreeing this year to push back decisions about the punishments of at least five people, including an Argentine businessman who testified at the New York trial and has served as a key cooperating witness.“FIFA remains ready to assist public authorities in all cases and, while the experience was difficult, we are finally very grateful that the U.S. Department of Justice intervened when it did to address some serious governance problems and, in so doing, help put FIFA on the path to reform,” its statement added.The current leadership has attempted to build bridges with the American authorities. FIFA’s top legal official, the deputy secretary general Alasdair Bell, made it a priority to visit Brooklyn and meet with prosecutors upon joining the soccer body in September. His visit came a month after FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, met with President Trump at the White House.Such trips were considered perilous four years ago. Blatter and his former No. 2, Jérôme Valcke, who faces a separate corruption investigation in Switzerland, skipped the Women’s World Cup when it was held in Canada in the summer of 2015, only weeks after the first raids in Switzerland. Other officials also have stayed safely out of reach.FIFA has not confirmed whether any council members will skip next week’s meeting, though at least one may not travel, according to a person familiar with the council member’s thinking.Coming to Miami also renews focus on Concacaf, the regional confederation that governs soccer in North and Central America and Caribbean. Based in the city, Concacaf is one of soccer’s six regional governing bodies, but it perhaps felt the most damage from the scandal: three of its former presidents were charged by United States authorities, and an internal probe later found multiple examples of rogue behavior, including self-dealing, indiscriminate use of private jets and even the recruitment of a private detective to snoop on individuals, including the former U.S. Soccer president Sunil Gulati, who still sits on the FIFA Council.Concacaf, which  nearly closed amid a banking crisis brought on by the Justice Department case, is largely prospering after introducing governance reforms. It has also changed headquarters, moving from a location in Miami Beach that was the target of F.B.I. raids in 2015 to a new office in the city’s business district.Its current president, Victor Montagliani of Canada, said Concacaf had “long turned the page” on its existential crisis.“Having FIFA come to Miami for the first time since the events of 2015 marks a momentum forward for world football,” he said, “and we are glad to play our part.”While its worst days may have passed, global soccer continues to be dogged by sporadic episodes of unethical behavior by senior figures. A Ghanaian member of the FIFA Council, Kwesi Nyantakyi, received a lifetime ban last year after being caught on camera accepting thousands of dollars in cash from an undercover reporter. And last week, another council member, Lee Harmon of the Cook Islands, received a three-month ban for the illegal resale of tickets to last year’s World Cup in Russia.To Miguel Maduro, a former governance head at FIFA, the continuing problems are both structural and cultural, part of a system that he said was still being run as a “political cartel.” Infantino, for example, will stand unopposed for re-election later this year in an election that will mirror the one for the presidency of European soccer in February. In that race, the incumbent, Aleksander Ceferin, was re-elected by acclamation.Perhaps the biggest sign of FIFA’s difficulties in changing the culture is its inability to wean the council members who will be in Miami off the kind of lifestyle even they have acknowledged to be excessive. At previous meetings, for example, members have described being met on the airport tarmac and whisked to luxury hotels without having to go through the usual arrival protocol. Even after FIFA’s reforms, they receive annual salaries of $250,000, plus an additional per diem, to attend as few as three meetings a year.“That’s one of the reasons you maintain the cartel,” Maduro said. “You have to satisfy the people that keep you in power.”Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherKareem Hunt, the former Kansas City Chiefs star running back who was captured on video pushing and kicking a woman, was suspended without pay for the first eight games of the regular season by the N.F.L. on Friday.Hunt, who joined the Cleveland Browns in February, a year after the incident, will not appeal the suspension, which will mean he will miss the first half of the season.The N.F.L. said in a statement that the suspension came in connection with a physical altercation at his residence in Cleveland last February and at a resort in Ohio last June.The league recently completed its investigation, which it said included “reviewing available law enforcement records, video and electronic communications, interviews with numerous witnesses, and multiple interviews with Hunt.”The eight-game suspension, which will start at the beginning of the regular season, is one of the heaviest for players involved in abuse and violence cases.The league’s handling of these cases has been under intense scrutiny since 2014, when Commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Ray Rice for two games after video emerged of him punching his fiancée. The suspension was roundly criticized as too short, and Goodell later apologized and strengthened penalties for violence and abuse.Less than two weeks later, more vivid video of Rice punching his fiancée was published by the celebrity website TMZ. The league suspended Rice indefinitely, a penalty that was later overturned, and he has never returned to the N.F.L. The league’s policies and investigative abilities have also been tested in abuse cases involving Greg Hardy, Adrian Peterson, Josh Brown and other players.The N.F.L. has hired former prosecutors and others with experience in investigating misconduct cases. Even so, the league has had to walk a fine line between taking a tough stand against violence against women and waiting to complete its investigations before deciding whether to penalize a player or league executive.In the incident at Hunt’s residence, an upscale apartment in downtown Cleveland, the videotaped altercation with a woman did not result in a police case. Hunt pushed a 19-year-old woman, and was then held back by other men. He broke free, and the woman fell down in the chaos. Hunt then kicked her. In the resort incident several months later, Hunt is accused of punching a man in the face. No charges were filed in that case either.The cases renewed debate and discussion over how seriously the N.F.L. investigates and punishes players’ behavior off the field, particularly fights and assaults that are reported but do not result in police charges.An examination of the league’s investigation shows that the N.F.L. relied heavily on the word of the Chiefs, who had a vested interest in keeping their star running back on the field, and did not press to independently verify the account of the incident that Hunt gave to them.When the video emerged in November, the N.F.L. suspended Hunt, though it had learned of the altercation months earlier. The Chiefs, who also knew of the incident long before, then released him.The N.F.L. said it was unable to obtain the video, which TMZ published. League officials suggested that TMZ had paid for the video, which they said the league would not do for fear others might try to extort money from the N.F.L.Hunt had starred as a rookie for the team in 2017, leading the league in rushing yards, and had played well again in his second season, gaining 824 yards in 11 games.In February, Hunt was signed by the Browns. John Dorsey, the general manager, said: “Given what we know about Kareem through our extensive research, we believe he deserves a second chance.”In the announcement, Hunt was quoted as saying: “First off, I would like to once again apologize for my actions last year. What I did was wrong and inexcusable.”Signing Hunt was a risk because he faced disciplinary action from the league. But the Browns have been eager to make over the once woeful team. After 1-15 and 0-16 seasons, the team, led by the promising rookie quarterback Baker Mayfield, raced to a 7-8-1 record in the 2018 season, its best since 2007. Hopes are high for an even better season next year: On Tuesday the team traded for the receiving superstar Odell Beckham Jr. from the Giants.Hunt grew up in a suburb of Cleveland and went to the University of Toledo.The Browns are not the only team willing to sign a player under a cloud. In 2015, the Cowboys signed Hardy, a defensive lineman who had been convicted of beating his girlfriend. The case was dismissed on appeal. The N.F.L. suspended Hardy for 10 games, but the penalty was reduced to four games on appeal.In November, the Redskins claimed linebacker Reuben Foster off waivers after he was released by the San Francisco 49ers days after he was arrested in Tampa, Fla., on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge.The league suspended Foster indefinitely with pay, but the Redskins signed him anyway. The charges against Foster were dropped in January.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonA little more than a week after prosecutors in Florida charged Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, with soliciting prostitution, what ordinarily would be a minor case has become a legal battle involving some of the most expensive and sought-after lawyers in the country.To lead his defense, Mr. Kraft, a billionaire friend of President Trump and one of the most powerful owners in the N.F.L., has retained William A. Burck, who was a lawyer in the George W. Bush White House and had a role in the screening of documents related to Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh’s recent Supreme Court nomination. Mr. Kraft has also hired Jack Goldberger, the Florida lawyer who defended Jeffrey E. Epstein, a wealthy New York financier accused of trafficking underage girls for sex.Mr. Goldberger and Mr. Burck did not return calls for comment, but they could mount an aggressive defense by poking holes in video evidence that may prove that Mr. Kraft did not ask anyone for sex and by arguing that the police violated Mr. Kraft’s Fourth Amendment rights during an improper traffic stop, among other arguments.Prosecutors in Palm Beach County, Fla., so far have taken a hard line on Mr. Kraft and the two dozen other individuals who have been accused of soliciting prostitution at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa, a massage parlor and salon in a Jupiter, Fla., strip mall about a 30-minute drive from Mr. Kraft’s home in Palm Beach. Last week, they increased the severity of the charges, from second-degree to first-degree misdemeanors.Prosecutors say Mr. Kraft’s arrest was a part of a larger, six-month investigation into human trafficking at nearly a dozen businesses in Florida.“Human trafficking is evil in our midst,” Dave Aronberg, the state attorney for Palm Beach County, who is overseeing the cases, said last week. “It is fueled on the demand side.”Prosecutors have acknowledged that Mr. Kraft and the other men charged in the case probably had no knowledge of whether human trafficking was involved. But Mr. Kraft’s wealth and notoriety have turned what would have been a local story into an international one, so prosecutors will want to avoid appearing to treat him differently, especially if the case involves human trafficking, criminal lawyers in Florida said.“State attorneys are elected officials, and they are aware of public opinion,” said Eric M. Matheny, a former prosecutor in Miami-Dade County who defends people accused of sex crimes. “They might play hardball, if only for appearance’ sake.”Mr. Kraft is likely to be in little legal danger. He has been charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting a prostitute, and he faces up to a year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service. But he is unlikely to spend a day in jail. Prosecutors often offer first-time offenders a chance to pay a fine and perform community service, while not admitting fault.Even if they feel they can win their case, most defendants take the deal rather than augment the shame of being arrested. After a deal is reached, defendants typically have 60 or 90 days to complete their community service and classes. After they prove they finished their obligations, the charges are dropped. The defendants then petition the court to have their records expunged.Mr. Kraft is in a different position. Like many people facing similar charges, he has pleaded not guilty, but as the owner of a professional football team, he has a strong incentive to try to get the charges dismissed.His lawyers could ask why the police waited months to install cameras inside the massage parlor. There is also a question of whether the police acted lawfully when they asked Mr. Kraft for identification during a traffic stop after his first visit to the spa, which was caught on video, even though he was a passenger, and not the driver, in the car.Mr. Kraft’s lawyers could question why the police did not get search warrants earlier if they had suspected that sex was being sold inside and that some of the women were being held against their will. Were the cameras merely installed once authorities learned that Mr. Kraft was a patron and saw an opportunity to gain publicity?If the video also captured people getting ordinary massages, lawyers could also argue that the surveillance overreached and therefore the video is inadmissible. Also, the video cameras that the police used did not have audio, so there may not be clear evidence of Mr. Kraft asking to pay for sex.“Just showing a video, you don’t know the conversation that occurred,” Mr. Matheny said. “With prostitution cases, it’s very technical what they say. It can’t be vague.”Prosecutors may have a witness who can attest that Mr. Kraft asked for sex. In addition, if they enter the video into evidence it may become public, something that Mr. Kraft would most likely want to avoid.“The state can certainly use the strength of their evidence as a negotiating tool,” said Ron Herman, who worked as a prosecutor in South Florida for six years on cases involving sexual assault or battery and who is now in private practice.If the video becomes public, or his court case is televised, which is possible in state court in Florida, Mr. Kraft’s problems could go from bad to worse. It would increase the pressure on the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell, to punish Mr. Kraft more severely, and potentially diminish his standing in ownership circles, where he is responsible for helping to negotiate media contracts that produce the bulk of the N.F.L.’s $14 billion in annual revenue.Mr. Kraft’s lawyers are likely to fight tooth and nail to ensure that the video never becomes public, opening yet another front in a litigation that under normal circumstances would involve little effort or expense.“If there’s no prior history, it should be resolved,” said John S. Hager, a former criminal prosecutor in Florida now in private practice.These, of course, are not normal circumstances.“If Kraft goes to trial and the judge allows the cameras to be played, it will be on national TV, so you compound the embarrassment,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., the son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a former prosecutor in Florida. “Kraft has a severe downside by going to trial. He can win the trial, but he can still lose.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOhio State 28, Washington 23 | Rose BowlBy Mike TierneyPASADENA, Calif. — A colleague once advised Urban Meyer to find a moment amid each game to savor. At Ohio State, the regimented coach customarily would remove his headset between the third and fourth quarters to soak in the university marching band blasting the vintage rock tune “Hang On Sloopy.”The better the Buckeyes were playing, the longer he would listen.On Tuesday, as Meyer’s dominant squad built what appeared to be an irreversible lead over Washington in the 105th Rose Bowl, the coach was able to take in every last note.“This has been on the bucket list,” Meyer said of winning his first Rose Bowl. “I love all the other bowls, but being a Big Ten guy from Ohio and watching the Rose Bowl in the ’70s with Archie Griffin, it’s everything everybody says it was.”In what Meyer maintains was a football coaching farewell that came as a result of his own health concerns, the No. 6 Buckeyes withstood a late rally by No. 9 Washington to prevail, 28-23, and make a mild case that omitting them from the College Football Playoff in lieu of Oklahoma (slow out of the starting blocks against Alabama) and Notre Dame (glued to the blocks against Clemson) was an oversight.As for Meyer, himself, he departs with a somewhat complicated legacy, with great achievements on the field tarnished to a degree by things that occurred away from it.He won three national titles — one with Ohio State and two with the University of Florida — and his winning percentage of .853 is unmatched among active coaches. Yet the school suspended him three games this season, concluding he mishandled the issue of an assistant coach accused of domestic abuse. And at his previous stop, in Florida, there were a considerable number of players involved in off-field misconduct.So while there is no denying his genius as a coach, to his critics, at least, the reports that he would start his retirement by helping instruct a business class at Ohio State on leadership and character seemed like satire. In fact, he will be doing just that.Meanwhile, against Washington on Tuesday, Meyer’s Buckeyes (13-1) corrected this season’s main deficiency — yielding long gains on the ground. Coming into the game, Ohio State had allowed six rushing touchdowns of more than 75 yards, the most by any Football Bowl Subdivision defense since 2003.The Huskies (10-4), however, scrounged out just 3.6 yards per carry, with their lengthiest running play covering 19 yards. They resorted to a tailback pass by Myles Gaskin in the fourth quarter to finally put a touchdown on the scoreboard.Washington’s quarterback, Jake Browning, helped generate two additional scoring drives in the fourth quarter, both on Gaskin rushes, the latter with just 42 seconds left in the game. But a failed 2-point conversion and an onside kick attempt easily recovered by Ohio State closed out the comeback attempt and sent Meyer into retirement with a meaningful victory.Pressed to reveal his thoughts in the last minute, Meyer said, “It was, ‘Are you kidding me?’ until we got the onside kick.”Last week, Meyer labeled his quarterback Dwayne Haskins’ two previous games — 11 touchdowns passes, 895 yards — as among “the best performances in college football history.”Yet, on the Buckeyes’ first scoring drive on Tuesday, all but three of the initial 65 yards came on runs, mainly by Mike Weber, who carried the ball four times for 52 yards on the drive.With the Huskies anticipating another run, Haskins then hit a wide-open Parris Campbell for a 12-yard touchdown, providing an early validation for Ohio State having named Ryan Day, the team’s offensive coordinator, as Meyer’s successor.Washington untangled itself from a dreadful start offensively — two three-and-outs — and drove to a field goal, only to concede another lengthy march by Ohio State that ended in a touchdown on Haskins’ 19-yard toss to Johnnie Dixon.The Huskies’ offense was so quiet in the first half that Browning’s shining occasion was a punt out of a shotgun formation that was downed at Ohio State’s 3-yard line.Still another three-and-out by Washington on its next series enabled the Buckeyes to flip the field. For Haskins’ third scoring strike, they needed to motor only 47 yards, with Haskins finishing the drive with a 1-yard touchdown pass to Rashod Berry.The scoreboard said 21-3 at halftime. The feeling in the stadium said the gap was wider, and the perception remained so when Washington went backward on consecutive snaps from Ohio State’s 32-yard line after accepting the second-half kickoff.Seven plays later, the Buckeyes seemingly put to bed any doubt that Meyer would not exit on a high note. Reversing the script of the first score, Haskins threw for all but two of the 77 yards the Buckeyes traveled, and then handed off to J.K. Dobbins for a 3-yard touchdown run.Meyer’s prior departure from coaching was caused by excessive stress. Though reduced, it has not been eradicated. Asked recently if he feels nervous before games, Meyer said, “Deathly ill might be more appropriate.”After Tuesday’s game, Meyer half-joked that in previous years a cellphone would have been at his ear as he walked off the Rose Bowl field, with the coach seeking updates on recruits.“The new guy has got to worry about that,” he said.But while there are few who would be surprised if Meyer, a mere 54, ends up going back into coaching at some point down the road, for the moment, he seemed interested in savoring this victory.“While we enjoyed tonight, I don’t believe I’m going to coach again,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleHave you heard of Zion Williamson?Some are calling him the next LeBron James. At 6 feet 7 inches and 285 pounds, Williamson, a freshman basketball player at Duke University, is impressing fans with his combination of size, strength and leaping ability. Many are captivated by his thrilling monster dunks.On Feb. 20, less than a minute into a nationally televised game against archrival North Carolina, Williamson injured his right knee when one of his Nike sneakers “exploded.” (Watch here to see what happened to the shoe.) With March Madness less than a month away, his injury has revived an age-old question: Should college athletes be paid?In “Zion Williamson’s Injury Has Some Saying He Should Quit Duke,” Marc Tracy writes:A freakish injury to Duke’s Zion Williamson, college basketball’s best and most prominent player, only seconds into a game on Wednesday night has instantaneously renewed a debate about the contradictions of the sport’s economic foundation, shining a harsh new light on the N.C.A.A.’s policy of amateurism and the influence of billion-dollar shoe companies.It also raised an important question: Should Williamson ever suit up for another college game?Fans were asking the question. An N.B.A. player was, too, even before Duke announced that Williamson had sprained his right knee in the fall.“It’s a legitimate question,” said Ramogi Huma, the founder and president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for players’ rights.In the first minute of top-ranked Duke’s game against its archrival, eighth-ranked North Carolina, Williamson, a 6-fotot-7, 285-pound forward whose game is a blend of quickness and power, pivoted with the ball near the free-throw line. As he planted a foot to reverse direction, his left sneaker collapsed and tore apart from the sheer torque of the move.Williamson fell backward in a split, grabbing his right knee. He walked off the court, and did not return. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said afterward that Williamson had sustained a knee injury, but that the joint was “stable.”Pending further testing, the general sense is that Williamson — and Duke, and Nike, which made the shoe — had avoided the worst. Williamson, widely considered the nation’s best college player, is expected to be available to Duke in time for its conference tournament or the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins in a month.That is, should Williamson elect to return.Huma cited the example of a top football player who found himself with a more serious injury a few years ago; that player elected to end his college career prematurely, to limit the risk to his professional payday. “To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Huma said.The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple. Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.That is how the college sports economy works, even as Duke; its conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference; television networks; and, of course, Nike, the apparel company that sponsors Duke and made the shoe that so spectacularly ripped apart, reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes like Williamson.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Do you think college athletes should be paid? Or is a college scholarship and other non-monetary perks like the opportunity to play in front of cheering fans enough?— Do you think college athletic programs, the N.C.A.A. and shoe companies like Nike are taking advantage of college athletes like Williamson? Why or why not?— In a related Opinion piece, “Paying Students to Play Would Ruin College Sports,” Cody J. McDavis writes:Paying student-athletes might sound like a fairer way to treat students who generate so much money and attention for their colleges (not to mention the television networks that broadcast their games). But paying athletes would distort the economics of college sports in a way that would hurt the broader community of student-athletes, universities, fans and alumni. A handful of big sports programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while almost every other college would get caught up in a bidding war it couldn’t afford.Do you find his argument persuasive? What possible difficulties or downsides might there be in providing monetary compensation to players?— If you were Williamson, would you continue playing for Duke this season and risk injury? Or would you sit out the rest of the college season and enter the N.B.A. draft — where he will likely be the No. 1 overall pick and earn a multimillion-dollar contract?Related New York Times coverage:Everyone Loves to Watch Zion Williamson Play. Maybe as Much as He Loves Playing.How the N.C.A.A. Cheats Student AthletesA Way to Start Paying College AthletesOther Resources:College Athletes Getting Paid? Here Are Some Pros and Cons — HuffPostShould College Athletes Be Paid? Why, They Already Are — Sports IllustratedThere’s No Crying in College: The Case Against Paying College Athletes — Bleacher ReportStudents 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementPast TenseThe queens of Motown play the posh suburbs."One of the most popular rock and roll combinations in the nation, the Supremes, entertain the party," read the photographer's notes. June 18, 1965.CreditCreditAllyn Baum/The New York TimesSupported byBy Alexis ClarkIt’s a vision of two Detroits that have mostly faded now — the social set born of the American auto industry’s vast wealth and the galvanizing magic of ’60s Motown — together in a room.In June 1965, the Supremes, one of America’s biggest and most glamorous groups, performed at a debutante party at the Country Club of Detroit in Grosse Pointe, Mich., the posh all-white enclave just northeast of the city.It was the debutante party of Christy Cole Wilson, and The New York Times pictures of the event tell a layered story of two groups connected, at least for the evening, by the music of that time and place. The three elegant darlings of Detroit, led by the 21-year-old Diana Ross, serenade a room of finely attired guests, many of practically the same age. But between the groups were also the realities of race and class — the distance between Grosse Pointe and the Brewster projects where the Supremes grew up, 10 miles and several worlds away.The Times covered the lavish event in avid detail. “It took three days, hundreds of fresh blue irises, thousands of little Italian lights and hundreds of thousands of yellow plastic flowers to turn the club into a French garden,” the story enthused. “Whole walls had disappeared behind Austrian silk panels of gold and mirrors before the 750 guests arrived.”Not until the eighth paragraph did the story mention that “when they were not dancing and being entertained by a rock ‘n’ roll group called the Supremes, the Wilsons and their guests were polishing off 20 cases of French champagne, attempting to create a liquor shortage (the plot failed), and heaping their plates with food from an abundantly stocked buffet table.”The trio hardly needed an identifier at that point. Between August 1964 and June 1965, the Supremes had five No. 1 singles, including “Baby Love,” “Stop! In the Name of Love” and “Back in My Arms Again,” which had gone to the top of the charts just six days before this party. Which is exactly why Ms. Wilson’s parents hired them.“Everyone had very glamorous deb parties when I was growing up,” said Ms. Wilson Hofmann, 72, who now lives in Bristol, R.I.Her father, Ralph C. Wilson Jr., a millionaire insurance scion who had “a stable in Lexington, Ky., and the Buffalo Bills football team,” seemed happy to toast his daughter in such style. The event reportedly cost $85,000, which would be roughly $675,000 today. (This was just the hometown event; the 18-year-old Ms. Wilson had already been formally presented at the Debutante Cotillion and Christmas Ball in New York in December 1964.)It was an era when families of distinction across the country presented their daughters to society, with the intention that suitable men from similar backgrounds would meet their future wives. In Grosse Pointe, it was the “Ford girls,” the great-granddaughters of Henry Ford, who had ramped up the deb-ball arms race. Nat King Cole sang at Charlotte Ford’s storied party in 1959, while Ella Fitzgerald performed at her sister Anne’s soiree in 1961.Racial dynamics were changing in the 1960s, but often in fits and starts. The Supremes performing at a private club in Grosse Pointe, which still had no black residents, reflected this lurching progress. “Music filtered in,” said Izzy Donnelly, the director of education at the Grosse Pointe Historical Society. “The ’60s were about breaking tradition. Bringing black entertainers to debutante balls and private clubs was putting a big foot in the front door.”It wasn’t an intentional political statement to hire the Supremes to perform at her party, Ms. Wilson Hofmann said. She chose them because she loved their music, and she was from a family that could make her request happen.“I grew up in Grosse Pointe and loved the Supremes and that kind of music, like the Temptations and Marvin Gaye,” said Ms. Wilson Hofmann.“They were extraordinarily popular with white audiences, black audiences and everyone else,” said Dolores Barclay, an author and adjunct professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, who collaborated with Diana Ross on the singer’s memoir. “Appearing in white venues was breaking down racial barriers. But it’s a different type of disruption. It’s nonconfrontational. It’s having a platform and saying, ‘Yes, we’re here, we’re great and we’re a part of American music.’”The Supremes were homegrown celebrities in Detroit and received star treatment, but there were black entertainers across the country still entering clubs and performance halls through the kitchen.“Anything in the South was still tenuous,” said Coraleen Rawls, collections manager at the Motown Museum in Detroit. “On one hand, we had artists who were happy to perform because that’s their passion and vocation. But it was also disheartening to be international stars and still be treated differently.”Just two years after Ms. Wilson’s debut, Detroit would experience the devastating unrest of 1967, as the city’s racial and economic disparities exploded into national awareness. And the Motown sound would prove to be a powerful force in the healing process.“It unified people and brought us all together,” Ms. Rawls said. “Where there were ropes between whites and blacks, those ropes started disappearing, as the people on both sides were like, ‘We’re all dancing. Why do we have to have a rope in the middle? You’re dancing, I’m dancing. We’re singing, you’re singing, so why do we have to be separated by some rope because of some thoughts prior to our generation as to how you think we should be?’”The year after the Supremes played Ms. Wilson’s party, the first black family moved to Grosse Pointe, and by 1974, The Times reported that three African-American families called the town home. In 2019, Grosse Pointe Farms, where the Country Club of Detroit is, remains 94 percent white, while the city of Detroit is 79 percent black.The deb parties continued in Grosse Pointe, albeit in a scaled-back fashion. In 1970, The Times covered the celebration for Sheila Ford, another heir of the automobile family. She opted for a short purple dress instead of traditional formal attire, and hired the group Sha-Na-Na, who “played what the listeners called real modern blues music.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersWe asked readers to discuss how the people they met and classes they took influenced them, and how much going to an elite school matters.To the Editor:My admittance to Stanford was my golden ticket to a college nicknamed “Paradise,” where learning from Pulitzer Prize-winning authors and being mentored by paradigm-changing scientists were normal. Stanford opened doors I never even knew existed, having grown up in a small, agricultural town in Northern California. A little thing called an “endowment” changed my life. When I graduated in 2018, I was no longer a small-town girl, but rather a young adult, itching to contribute something meaningful. Stanford transformed my flimsy desire to become a doctor into a fiery passion to become a leader in health care — all because I had witnessed this leadership in my mentors and friends.Today, I still question what it means to attend an “elite” college, especially as admissions scandals unfold. But what I do know is that these colleges can open doors for those who want to rectify flawed systems and are hungry to elevate others. Small-town girls like me just need the exposure. To those on admissions committees: Admit more of us. Doing so can improve communities and generations to come.Shin Mei ChanSan FranciscoTo the Editor:I have a vivid recollection of the conversation that occurred in the parking lot of an independent prep school where I taught years ago. A colleague asked me, somewhat incredulously, “Wait a minute — you went to a state college?” There was a pause as I nodded in the affirmative, then came the kicker: “Oh, but I thought you were brilliant.”In places such as these, and too often in the job market, attending an “elite” college matters very much. The fact is, it shouldn’t matter at all. My dad was retired; we could not afford an expensive college. I earned a full-tuition scholarship and paid my own way. I pursued graduate work at an “elite” engineering school and earned an advanced degree from a large university. Neither was inherently superior in terms of the education it delivered.The college experiences that shaped my life the most centered around getting to know people from diverse backgrounds and learning to solve problems independently. Where or if a person went to college should matter far less than what a person has learned and become along the way in life.George WhittemorePrinceton, Mass.To the Editor:My community college experience saved my life. After graduating from high school, moving around and floundering in minimum-wage jobs, I returned to my hometown to live with my parents. I was depressed and attempted suicide. During my recovery, I started attending the community college in my hometown. At first, I resisted enrolling in our local community college because I felt there was a stigma. But when I did, I found a menagerie of students from all walks of life and professors who were deeply passionate about their students.Class by class, the depression that had held me down for so long began to lift. I joined the honors program and then helped mentor other students. I presented at an undergraduate research conference. Along the way, I met my fiancé and built a network of peers and mentors who helped me get where I am today.I cannot emphasize enough the importance of community colleges. Their support systems, small and tight-knit communities, and affordability are truly unrivaled. Today, I am working to destigmatize the college experience I owe everything to.Sarah OlsonCorvallis, Ore.The writer will be an undergraduate transfer student at Oregon State University in the fall.To the Editor:I arrived for my freshman year at Yale still wondering why I had been admitted. I was delighted and humbled by my access to all the resources, human and physical, that a great and prestigious university has to offer. I wish I could do it again, but as an adult. Yale was an amazing treat, like being taken on an exotic vacation.My diploma must have conferred a little prestige when I went looking for a job, but that’s all. In my 45 years in the working world, I always saw employees judged on cooperation and performance, not pedigree. In fact, being thought of as an intellectual fancy pants became an obstacle once in a while.A degree from a fancy school is like having a fancy suit. Delightful if you care about such things, but overpriced, overhyped and meaningless in our universal quest toward living a life we love.We are all blessed with immense and unearned privilege the day we are born. It is called being an American.Philip BowlesSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Duke. That single word changed my life in 1966. It’s right there on my license plate. DUKEMD. I had never been south of Washington, D.C. I had not even visited the campus of my “safety” school in North Carolina. I was going to Yale. Except I didn’t get in.I found myself in a foreign land of segregated restaurants, hushpuppies that you ate, not wore, alpaca sweaters, tassel loafers, ties at football games and something called Brunswick stew. I also discovered that people with thick Southern accents could run rings around me in chemistry class. And I thought I was smart!I was pre-med, but I took many mandatory liberal arts courses. Thank goodness I did. It was in Religion 2 that I first read the New Testament and in psychology that I read Freud. Those classes left the biggest impressions on me as they opened my horizons to novel (for me) ways of thinking.I owe the rest of my 50 years, including meeting my wife in Duke Medical School, to that very foreign land in Durham, N.C. Did it matter that I went to Duke? I bet my life it did.Leonard A. ZwellingBellaire, Tex.To the Editor:I graduated in 1957 from a competitive public high school in Brooklyn. After my brother entered Swarthmore in 1951 when I was 11, my mother began grooming me and pressuring me to get admitted there, too. I worked hard academically, became an editor of a school publication, and took tutoring lessons all to prevent the catastrophe of being rejected.I did get into Swarthmore, and during my first semester began to experience the incapacitating depressions that would haunt me for the rest of my life. I still remember clearly my first visit home at Thanksgiving. I was riding the IRT subway to Brooklyn and looking at the other riders and thinking, “I wonder if any of these people are smart enough to go to Swarthmore, but I’m sure they are all happier than I am.”Elsa PrigozySlingerlands, N.Y.To the Editor:Can four years change your life? I arrived on the Brandeis campus in the late summer of 1982, a fresh-faced kid from a small town in upstate New York. During my time at school I met the woman who would become my wife. Made friends who are still my closest. Became a Deadhead. Partied a lot (sorry, Mom and Dad!). Studied a bit. Began playing guitar.I learned how big the world actually is, and realized for the first time how much a part of that world I was. My mind grew, opened up. My heart changed. I became, essentially and fundamentally, who I am today.One conversation with a professor sticks with me. I was a middling student. He grabbed me after class and we talked for maybe five minutes. I don’t remember exactly what he said. It had something to do with my potential, with something he saw in me that I didn’t see. I walked out of his office and thought of myself in a different way. Suddenly there was an intellectual curiosity, almost a kind of muse, that I am still following. I wonder if he ever knew?(Rabbi) Steve SchwartzBaltimoreTo the Editor:I was accepted to M.I.T. as a transfer student in 1975. It is hard to overestimate the impact of that elite name on the undergraduate degree I earned there in mechanical engineering. People’s response to me changes when they hear I graduated from M.I.T. It’s like an automatic in. Forty years later it is still featured prominently at the top of my résumé.Gail Whoriskey ZwerlingSomerville, Mass.To the Editor:I earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from South Dakota State University in the 1990s. Immediately after graduating I moved to the East Coast, where many people I met couldn’t find South Dakota on a map and had certainly never heard of the university. I was able to find jobs with good companies in various large cities and to build a decent career. After a few years in the work force, it seemed to matter more where I had worked than where I went to college. I was probably not called in to interview by some companies because I hadn’t attended a prestigious university, but there are plenty of great employers who look at more than alma mater. All that said, I’ve seen how attending certain schools opens many doors. It’s not a guarantee of success, but there’s no denying that graduates of top schools have a leg up.I have a 2-year-old and I already think about where she’ll go to college. It will ultimately be her choice, but I will strongly suggest elite institutions. Despite my own positive experience and my desire for it to not matter, it absolutely does.Jennifer Healy KeintzEden, S.D.To the Editor:My undergraduate college experience was scattered, extraordinary and rich. The first year was spent at the College of St. Benedict in central Minnesota, where my eyes were opened to the Benedictines’ world of history and literature. Sister Colman cast me in Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” and I fell in love with the theater.The next year I studied with the Franciscans at the College of Saint Teresa in Winona, Minn. Sister Bernetta’s huge graphic representation of Dante’s “Inferno,” which occupied a whole wall and an entire semester of study, will stay with me until I die.My last two years were spent at the University of Minnesota, where professors like John Berryman, Saul Bellow, William Van O’Connor and Robert Penn Warren were astonishing me daily. A new world opened. I began to question everything, and to embrace learning as a means to a fulfilling life.As Rilke says in “Letters to a Young Poet”: “Try to love the questions themselves. ... Do not now seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything.”Judith Koll HealeyMinneapolisThe writer is a novelist and biographer.To the Editor:I graduated from LeMoyne College in Syracuse, N.Y., in 1989 — good Jesuit liberal arts school, but by no means “elite.” The best professor I had there was a poet named Barbara Clarkson. A student of Auden and Roethke at Bennington College, she taught us how to write and be passionate about poetry. Her office was in the basement next to the janitor’s closet. She smoked cigars, ashing them into a cracked teacup she kept on her desk. I still read and write poetry today, and it’s because of her.This is college to me: not so much where you go, but whom you meet once you get there.Michael TuckerBath, Me.The writer is the course materials specialist at Bowdoin College.To the Editor:I went to an “elite” college — one of the Seven Sisters — in the late 1950s when they were all single-sex schools. I confess to have attended only to prove to my parents, my friends and myself that I could “get in.” Although I made several lifelong friendships and, because of a captivating professor in the music department, developed a love for music that sustains me to this day, I was far too immature to benefit from the potentially excellent education that I neglected to take advantage of.Although I confess to having enjoyed the cachet evoked by my school’s name, I’ve often regretted that I didn’t attend a large coed school with football and basketball games (and parties) to attend — or wished that a “gap year” had been available so that I could have had a year to experience the real world before being immersed in an ivory tower that, perhaps at one year older, I would have appreciated more.Peggy SweeneySarasota, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasIt was a momentous vote for the United Methodist Church, as the future of the country’s second-largest Protestant church hung in the balance. In a former football stadium in St. Louis last month, church officials and lay leaders from around the world voted to strengthen their ban on same-sex marriage and gay clergy, a decision that could now split the church.But at least four ballots were cast by individuals who were not authorized to vote, according to interviews and a review of the church’s records. The individuals were from African delegations whose votes were critical to restricting the church’s rules on homosexuality.The final 54-vote margin against gay clergy and same-sex marriage exceeds the number of unauthorized votes discovered so far. But the voting irregularities raised questions about the process behind the divisive decision, which devastated progressive members. Some have discussed leaving the denomination and possibly creating a new alliance for gay-friendly churches.Church leaders are now discussing whether new votes should be called, Bishop Thomas J. Bickerton, who serves on the commission on the general conference, said in a phone interview.“The findings that have come out have caused a serious impact on issues of trust and integrity about the whole process,” he said.A query by The New York Times last week prompted church officials to hire a consulting firm to examine whether people who were ineligible may have received credentials to vote at the church’s general conference.Church leaders who oversaw the conference said in a statement that the audit showed it was “possible that a very limited number of ineligible persons” had participated. These people were denied credentials by staff at the conference, the officials said, but were later able to procure them.The Times found additional irregularities. For example, two delegates from South Congo, a church district in the Democratic Republic of Congo, are listed on the official attendance records. But they never traveled to the United States for the conference because of visa issues, according to a phone interview with one of the delegates and a message sent by the other to Rev. Kalaba Chali, an official translator for the conference, who did not support the decision to strengthen the ban on gay clergy. In addition, three people voted as delegates for South Congo but their names are absent from conference attendance logs and delegate election records.One unauthorized delegate was Philippe Kasap Kachez, whose father is Bishop Kasap Owan, a prominent opponent of gay clergy. Three Methodists from the Congo region identified Mr. Kasap Kachez to The Times as a voter seated on the floor. Mr. Chali spoke with him in St. Louis and asked why he was present.“He said he did not go to a Methodist church in Congo; instead he lives in Brussels,” Mr. Chali said in a phone interview. “He said, ‘I came here because my dad asked me to come vote against the lesbians.’”When contacted on Facebook and WhatsApp, Mr. Kasap Kachez declined to comment. Bishop Kasap Owan did not respond to questions.“To learn that there were irregularities in the voting is distressing and of great concern,” said Bishop Kenneth H. Carter, the president of the Council of Bishops, said in an interview on Thursday.When asked what these findings meant for the result of the vote of the general conference, the Rev. Gary W. Graves, secretary of the conference, said, “That is a matter that would still be under review.”The United Methodist Church has detailed strict rules for how to conduct important votes, such as the one last month on gay clergy.The church worldwide is divided into geographical units, called “annual conferences.” Each one elects delegates to the church’s global meetings, called “general conferences,” and it also elects “reserves” in case a delegate is not able to attend. The list of delegates and the reserves for each region is published at the start of the general conference.In the rare event that neither delegates nor reserves can attend, an annual conference can send a different individual, but only if that person was elected as an alternate for the process that elects bishops. Even then, those reserves would have to have followed the proper registration procedures to be allowed onto the floor.There are no exceptions to this rule, which is codified in the church’s Book of Discipline.Experts in Methodist governance say it would be highly unusual for a delegate to be allowed on the floor who was not listed publicly as a delegate or reserve at the start of the general conference.But there were examples of discrepancies between who voted and who was listed as eligible to vote.Germain Unda Mupasa said in a phone interview that he was a delegate for East Congo, where his father is Bishop Gabriel Yemba Unda. His name is on the attendance record, but not on the authorized list of delegates or reserves. Records on the United Methodist website show that he was not elected as a delegate or alternate when the church community in East Congo decided its delegation last year.“If my name was not on that list, it means my name was missed,” Mr. Mupasa said. “In Africa, we can have many reserves, because there are visa issues.”Hassa Satshishinga Suzanne Malandji was listed as an elected reserve delegate for Lukoshi, another church district in Africa, but she told The Times she was a delegate for South Congo. She said that she supported the vote outcome because “we have the responsibility to do what the Bible says.”Voting integrity matters not just for the outcome of the vote, but for the fair representation of all churches. Some delegations, like South Congo, had delegates who could not travel because of visa issues. But in several cases, to abide by the rules, delegations like North Katanga, also a church district in Congo, voted with fewer than their allotted delegates, according to attendance records.Church law does not allow proxy votes, and only elected reserves can replace absent delegates.The United Methodist legal structure does not have a clear procedure on how to investigate or adjudicate improper election activity. The relevant ethics committee does not have jurisdiction when the general conference is not in session.The system itself has not had to ask itself these types of questions, said Laceye Warner, a professor of Methodist studies at Duke Divinity School.“The polity of the United Methodist Church presumes trust,” she said. “The last several years, the ethos of the denomination has been characterized more by mistrust and misunderstanding.”Margaret Kramer and Jennifer Harlan contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementA year ago, Blueface was a little-known Los Angeles rapper, a former high school football star looking for new purpose, and new attention. Currently, and rather suddenly, he has become a rising hip-hop star with a single, “Thotiana,” that has been a viral sensation for the last few months and reached No. 9 on the Billboard Hot 100.“Thotiana” is an almost perfectly engineered hit of the social media age — it’s an effective song, and has also spawned several memes. Behind it all is Blueface, who despite his relative inexperience, understands how music functions in today’s economy, and has created a self-aware character that functions both as a musician and also as a piece of pliable internet content.On this week’s Popcast:Ben Dandridge-Lemco, a senior editor at The FaderAlphonse Pierre, a staff writer at PitchforkAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherOh, hi there. Welcome.We’re going to guess that you came here looking for information on the Super Bowl, the very important football game on Sunday. But did you type “Super Bowl?” Are you sure? Look again.Every year about this time, internet searches for “Super Bowl” go way up. But so do searches for “Superb Owl,” as fast-typing fans put the space in the wrong place.It has been noticed. This year, a search for “Super Bowl” on Google gets you the teams, time and location of the game. A search for “Superb Owl” gets you the same, plus a little cartoon of an owl.Reddit has a whole thread devoted to the superb owl, with pictures, videos and cartoons.Stephen Colbert made a joke of it a few years back, saying he would call the big game the Superb Owl to avoid angry letters from N.F.L. lawyers zealously guarding trademarks.Thursday night on “Jeopardy!” there was a Superb Owl category, with owl-related trivia. (Answer: The owl has traditionally been considered wise, as it was the bird of this Greek goddess. Question: Who is Athena?)So if you mistyped Super Bowl and wound up here, that’s great. We have tons of stuff about the game.Like a look at how Tom Brady became New England’s favorite adopted son.And an illustrated guide to the playoffs.And a prediction for the game.Hate the Patriots? Have a look at the Rams, though we admit it’s a little dated.But if you actually did want to know more about outstanding strigiformes (that’s owls), here’s a fascinating New York Times article about owls’ vision. It turns out they see the world much the way we do.Superb!AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonThe Giants on Tuesday allowed the three-time Pro Bowl safety Landon Collins to enter free agency rather than use an $11.15 million franchise tag that would have kept him a Giant.It was startling decision because Collins, 25, was one of the few stars on a porous defense that even the Giants’ brain trust blamed for a dispiriting 5-11 record last season.But more alarming is that Collins’s departure continues a discouraging trend in recent Giants history: the procession of top draft picks discarded by the team.Collins was a second-round selection in 2015. The Giants traded three picks (in the second, fourth and seventh rounds) to move up so they could take Collins with the first choice of the second round.Now Collins, in the early part of his prime, is unencumbered in free agency, where he will draw considerable interest. It’s a familiar fate for a Giants draft pick.In 10 drafts from 2008 to 2017, the Giants selected 70 players. Only seven are still with the team.The player the Giants chose in the first round ahead of Collins in 2015, tackle Ereck Flowers, was a colossal bust and was cut from the team early last season. In fact, no other player from the Giants 2015 draft class is still on the roster.That is hardly an aberration. The only player left from the 2014 draft class is Odell Beckham Jr. No player selected in 2013 is still with the team, and only two from 2016 are in a Giants uniform.The Giants’ approach to team building — if that’s even an appropriate term since they have had just one winning season since 2012 — has been highly unconventional as compared with their peers. In an era of salary cap restrictions, most N.F.L. teams have treated their draft selections like prized jewels to be coveted as they molded rosters with carefully chosen picks from the amateur draft.Collins certainly appeared to be the one selection of the Giants’ 2015 draft who would make the team proud for many seasons. After an uneven rookie season, a typical outcome for a first-year defensive back, Collins had five interceptions and 100 solo tackles in his second season, resulting in his being named to the All-Pro team.Collins’s production slumped slightly in the next season when he was not 100 percent because of injury. The same was true in 2018, but Collins still made the Pro Bowl in each of the last two seasons. He led the team in tackles in each of his four seasons.Collins also grew into a respected team leader who was a dependable, stand-up presence in an often fractious locker room that endured two coaching changes and consistent losing.It is true that Collins’s strengths as a player are as a run stopper, and last season his lack of downfield coverage skills were occasionally laid bare by opponents. Every year, the N.F.L. becomes more of a pass-first league, and it’s possible that the Giants will seem prescient for not investing heavily in a safety who might not be as valuable in a few years when teams are throwing the football 70 percent of the time — or more often.And then, of course, there is considerable salary that Collins would have commanded under the Giants’ franchise tag. More than $11 million is a lot for a safety. But the Giants could have negotiated a long-term contract with Collins to mitigate the annual cost.Meanwhile, it’s hard to forget that Eli Manning, who is 38 and has won eight games as the Giants’ starting quarterback in the last two seasons, will count $23.2 million against the Giants’ salary cap in 2019.The overarching strategy of Giants General Manager Dave Gettleman, who has been charged with fixing most of the draft choice blunders made by his predecessor, Jerry Reese, is not clear. Gettleman may be counting on the Giants receiving a high-round compensatory draft pick when Collins signs with another team. In addition, Gettleman may have feared that Collins, if designated with the franchise tag, would stay away from the team throughout training camp this summer, a negotiating tactic employed in recent years by other players seeking long-term deals. The Giants may not have wanted that distraction.What is known is that a poor Giants defense just got substantially worse. The Giants will now have more money to pursue free agents to resolve that expanding deficiency. And, bucking a trend, they had better draft wisely.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frank LitskyJohnny (Lam) Jones, a former Olympic gold medal sprinter and swift-footed football star at the University of Texas who never lived up to his promise as a football professional with the Jets, died on Friday. He was 60.His death was announced by the university, which said it came “after a lengthy battle with cancer.” Texas news organizations said he died in a hospital in Round Rock, Tex., north of Austin.Jones learned that he had multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, in 2005. Because he did not have health insurance, former Texas teammates raised money for his medical costs.Jones was phenomenon at his central Texas high school, in the city of Lampasas, running world-class times of 9.21 seconds for 100 yards and 10.14 for 100 meters.After graduating, he competed that summer in the 1976 Montreal Olympics, finishing sixth in the 100 meters and winning a gold medal running the second leg of the United States 4x100-meter relay team.He then enrolled at Texas, where his speed landed him on both the track and football teams. He would go on to become a record-setting All-American sprinter for the university.In his freshman year he ran in the same backfield as another Johnny Jones. To distinguish the two, Coach Darrell Royal gave one the nickname Lam, for Jones’s hometown, and the other the nickname Ham, because that Jones came from Hamlin, Tex.Lam Jones, at 5 feet 11 and 190 pounds, was a wide receiver in his last three years as a Longhorn, 1977-79, and an All-American in his senior year. He scored eight touchdowns of 45 yards or more at Texas and was chosen the team’s most valuable player in 1978.In the 1980 National Football League draft, the Jets traded two first-round picks to be able to move up and make Jones their first pick (and the draft’s second choice overall). He signed for $2.1 million over six years (the equivalent of $6.8 million today); it was pro football’s first million-dollar contract.But his pro career was an injury-ridden disappointment. In his first season in New York, he caught 25 passes but dropped 18. In his second season, his main job was to run in plays from the Jets’ offensive coordinator, Joe Walton, to the quarterback, Richard Todd. The New York Times sports columnist Dave Anderson called him “the Jets’ millionaire messenger.”There were a few highlights for Jones that season, however, including catching a 47-yard touchdown pass from Todd in a playoff-clinching 28-3 victory over the Green Bay Packers at Shea Stadium in New York. (The Jets, in the playoffs for the first time in 12 years, went on to lose to the Buffalo Bills in a wild-card game the next week.)In five seasons (1980-84) with the Jets, Jones suffered a broken collarbone, a pulled hamstring and a torn finger tendon. He spent 1985 and 1986 on the Jets’ injured reserve list. The next year, the Jets traded him to the San Francisco 49ers.“I know how they remember me in New York: I’m the guy they blew the draft pick on,” Jones told The Daily News in 2005. “That’s O.K. I didn’t live up to their expectations, but I didn’t live up to my own expectations, either.”He did worse in San Francisco: The 49ers promptly waived him in training camp. He then joined the Dallas Cowboys, who dropped him after he missed a morning meeting because, the team said, he had been drinking and had overslept.Indeed, he told The News that he had struggled with alcohol and cocaine addictions both during his playing days and afterward.As a pro, Jones caught 138 passes for 2,322 yards and 13 touchdowns. His best season was in 1983, with 43 catches, 734 yards and four touchdowns.“Games and challenges never scared Johnny,” Bill Little, an assistant athletic director at Texas, recalled on a Texas football website in 2004. “People did. Folks thought he was just extremely shy and sometimes rude. Years later, they would diagnose the condition he had as social anxiety disorder.”In 1988, his playing days over and living again in Texas, Jones served a month in jail after pleading guilty to indecency with a child, a 12-year-old girl. The episode was a turning point, he later said, compelling him to seek treatment for his addictions.“I needed to get my personal life in order,” he was quoted as saying. “I came back to live in the real world.”He sold cars and running tracks, made motivational speeches to high school athletes and was active with the Texas Special Olympics.In 1979, Jones donated his Olympic gold medal to the Special Olympics. Years later, he explained why: “I’d never seen anyone stop in a race and help someone who had fallen get up.”John Wesley Jones II was born on April 4, 1958, in Lawton, Okla., to John W. Jones and Mary Jones Dillon. His father was an Army sergeant who was later transferred to Texas.Lam Jones was married and divorced three times. There was no immediate information available about survivors.Jones was philosophical about the up-and-down course his life had taken. He was quoted by Bill Little on the Texas website: “I got to run in the Olympics, got a great education and played for the University of Texas and played for the New York Jets.”“I learned a lot,” he added, “and I had some tough lessons.”Frank Litsky, a longtime sportswriter for The Times, died in October. William McDonald contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham. Produced by Neena Pathak.What does it mean for Nike to align itself with Colin Kaepernick?Thursday, January 17th, 2019wesley morrisI am not an opera-goer. I do not go to the opera— not on purpose, not for any sort of like artistic dance. It’s just an art form that I experience maybe once a year. And last year, I got taken to the opera by one of our colleagues— Anthony Tommasini— who does the opera criticism for the New York Times. And there is a little bit of preamble— you know, sit around and talk and you sort of watch everybody in their gowns and dresses come in and you look at people’s very expensive tuxedos. And you’re very aware that you’re about to have this rarefied experience.jenna worthamSounds luxurious.wesley morrisAnd at some point before the opera starts, everybody gets up and the national anthem starts. And then everybody starts singing the national anthem.jenna worthamHow weird.wesley morrisNow, to be fair, it’s the beginning of the New York Metropolitan opera’s season. So we’re seeing the first show. And the season kicks off apparently with the singing of the national anthem.jenna worthamLike a baseball game.wesley morrisLike a baseball game. Exactamundo.jenna worthamI mean, that’s so weird, OK.wesley morrisBut I’m kind of like— I don’t want to get up. I don’t want to do this here. So I didn’t. I stayed seated.jenna worthamGood for you.wesley morrisAnd I didn’t expect to do that. Now I’m in this sunken place, how do I get out?jenna worthamIt’s Get Out 4.wesley morrisSo I just sat there. And the longer I sat, the angrier I got.jenna worthamOf course.wesley morrisI’m sitting there thinking about black people and how they weren’t at the opera. But then there was this additional aspect of it which is I was now performing my patriotism.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd I just didn’t want to participate in that performance surrounded by white people under those circumstances.jenna worthamHere’s what I’m wondering— did anybody else notice?wesley morrisI’m sure nobody noticed, but I felt very noticed. I went as the chief opera critic of the New York Times’ guest. And—jenna worthamOh, no.wesley morrisTo my left is Bret Stephens, the conservative columnist for this paper.jenna worthamAwkward.wesley morrisAnd I was trying to think what they were thinking in my not getting up. Like if they’d even noticed that I hadn’t. And I don’t know. I was like, are they going to think I’m like a Black Lives Matter person? And then I was like, well, I hope they do think I’m Black Lives Mattering right now.jenna worthamYes.wesley morrisAnd when I thought that, I was like, oh, I am staying seated. I’m not getting up.jenna worthamYou went full Rosa.wesley morrisNow I could never until that night have appreciated how long a non-Whitney Houston sung national anthem is.jenna worthamThat’s great. I mean, if Whitney had been singing it, you would’ve been standing.wesley morrisWell, yes, if Whitney had been singing it, my ass would have been up. But in remaining seated, I had a lot of time to think about why I didn’t stand up. Am I sitting as a form of actual political protest? Am I sitting as a form of meta protest? Is my protest a protest for protest’s sake, basically?jenna worthamRight. This is also just like only a Wesley monologue that’s like happening just for yourself in your head, but go on.wesley morrisFair. But then it led me to this other question— because I really felt like I was going to be asked to leave the Metropolitan Opera.jenna worthamThese days, the stakes are that high, though. That’s not a wild statement, you know what I mean? Like, this is the climate we’re living in. So what you’re basically telling me, Mr. Wesley Morris, is that you’re like the Colin Kaepernick of the opera. At least that’s how you felt in that moment.wesley morrisWow. OK. I would not say I was the Colin Kaepernick. But, listen, I did experience an affinity with him and I understood for the duration of that song some tiny part of what he and the other people who’ve carried on these protests of certain American values in his name feel yea when they sit during that song. It’s a long time when you feel like there is a risk to your remaining seated— or kneeling, as it were.jenna worthamNow I don’t watch sports. I don’t watch the ball foot. All I know about this man is he’s tall, he is fine, he’s biracial, he was adopted by white people, and he grew up in California. So I’mma a hand— I’m going to toss it to you.wesley morrisOK so Colin Kaepernick— he played for the University in Nevada and was drafted by the NFL in 2011. And didn’t really hit his stride as a starter until Alex Smith got injured on the San Francisco 49ers in 2012. And he became the starting quarterback. He had started basically no games and then became a star. He took the team to the Super Bowl in 2013.jenna worthamBig Willie style. He was a big deal.wesley morrisBig Willie style— you hear that, Colin Kaepernick?jenna worthamI had too much Diet Coke today, leave me alone.wesley morrisHe was a star. And it was one of those great sports stories where a person of whom little was expected and little was known winds up going to the Super Bowl. Now it’s also interesting to note that that Super Bowl in 2013 that was won by the Seattle Seahawks was the first to ever feature two black quarterbacks.jenna worthamIncredible.wesley morrisTwo biracial quarterbacks, by the way. But then— I don’t know— he got into a slump. The thing that was magical about him became somewhat ordinary and probably detrimental, which was his improvisation on the field.jenna worthamOK.wesley morrisSo at the start of 2016, Colin Kaepernick is basically fighting for his job. So at the same time that this man is competing to start for his football team, you have this really fraught national political environment.jenna worthamThat’s right.wesley morrisDonald Trump is running for president.jenna worthamAnd we’re in a moment too— let’s not forget in 2016— all of our feeds, all the newspapers, everything on television is reverberating with these two seemingly parallel, very close together, really horrific deaths at the hands of the police of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota.wesley morrisAnd those deaths come in the context of what seems like a constant flow of dead black people at the hands of the police.jenna worthamMany of whom— there are lots of questions about whether or not they’ll be charged. Most of them end up on paid leave. There is a feeling of unrest and injustice held by, I would say, probably every black person in the country at this moment in time.wesley morrisSo during this period, we get to August of 2016. The campaign is heating up. We know at this point that Donald Trump is the Republican nominee for president.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd that Hillary Clinton is the Democratic nominee for president. And football season is about to start. They have these preseason games that really only if you care about your team are you watching.jenna worthamOK. so it’s not like prime time yet.wesley morrisThey’re on TV.jenna worthamBut it’s like the diehard fans.wesley morrisRight. So it’s not like these preseason games are big news. They’re like a warm up. They let you know how your team is probably going to do.jenna worthamA scrimmage.wesley morrisI’ll accept that.jenna worthamThank you.wesley morrisSo during one of these preseason games, a woman named Jennifer Lee Chan notices that something is off. She basically covers the 49ers for the team. She’s the team beat writer. And she tweets that something is off about this formation of the team during the national anthem. And it’s a wide shot of the whole team. And if you get your magnifying glass out, you’ll notice that somebody with Colin Kaepernick’s number on the back is seated.jenna worthamChillin on the bench.wesley morrisAnd what she says is this is not a Jeff Fisher-approved formation— #hardknocks. She’s referring to Jeff Fisher— the coach of a different team— whose team was the subject of a documentary series called Hard Knocks.jenna worthamOK.wesley morrisAnd Jeff Fisher’s whole thing is— you’ve got to stand for the national anthem. You’ve got to be grateful for what you got, because the NFL is giving it to you, negros.jenna worthamNow this is where I started to pay attention. No one had really noticed until this point. Now the sitting starts getting national attention. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickI’ll continue to sit. I’m going to continue to stand with the people that are being oppressed. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamColin Kaepernick is asked about it directly in interviews. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingSpecifically, what would you like to see change in order for you to stand?colin kaepernickThere is a lot of things that need to change. One specifically is police brutality. There’s people being murdered unjustly and not being held accountable. Cops are getting paid leave for killing people. That’s not right. That’s not right by anyone’s standards. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamSo it’s around this point in time that a man named Nate Boyer, who’s a veteran, he’s a former Seahawks player as well writes an open letter in support of Kaepernick’s right to protest. He says, “even though my initial reaction to your protest was one of anger, I’m trying to listen to what you’re saying and why you’re doing it. I look forward to the day when you’re inspired to once again stand during our national anthem.” Kaepernick hit him up, they meet up, and Boyer suggests kneeling as a compromise because he sees it as a sign of respect. He says, because people need to pray and we kneel in front of fallen brothers grave. So Kaepernick agrees. He starts kneeling during the lineup during the national anthem rather than sitting on the benches during the anthem itself. And that’s when everything changes.wesley morrisSo other players start kneeling and the concept of taking a knee goes viral. So Norman Lear, the great television producer, television creator, All in the Family, Sanford and Son, Good Times. He takes a knee, posts a photo of him taking a knee. And then says, as a combat vet, I fought Nazis in World War II. Today, I #takeaknee once more in solidarity with my brothers and sisters still fighting for equality and justice.jenna worthamYou get Tracee Ellis Ross, the entire cast of Grey’s Anatomy— Gillian Anderson, David Duchovny on the set of new X Files reboot. I mean, a lot of people are paying attention. What’s interesting about this moment is both the national attention, but also the protesting is now tangentially about police brutality. It’s really about defending Kaepernick’s right to protest entirely, which is a much easier thing to get behind if you’re famous.wesley morrisRight, yes. It’s much easier to hashtag—jenna worthamTake a knee than #StopKillingBlackPeople.wesley morrisRight.jenna worthamRight?wesley morrisAmen.jenna worthamIt starts to get a little bit more amorphous, it gets a little bit wobbly on the sides, because then you have Noz deciding to launch a line of Christmas apparel in support of prison reform. I mean, by the way, Noz’s sweater campaign is called “Kneeling Santa.” So this thing is getting way out of control in the best way possible.wesley morrisWell, let’s go to the worst way possible. Because the president— the current president at the time in 2017— gets involved— Donald Trump. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]president trumpWouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say, get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out. He’s fired. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem or you shouldn’t be playing, you shouldn’t be there. Maybe you shouldn’t be in the country. You have to stand proudly for the nation. So I watched Colin Kaepernick and I heard he’s terrible. And then it got bigger and bigger and started mushrooming. And, frankly, the NFL should have suspended him for one game and he would have never done it again. They could have been suspended for two games. And they could have suspended him if he did it a third time for the season. And you would never have had a problem. But I will tell you— you cannot disrespect our country, our flag, our anthem. You cannot do that. [END PLAYBACK]wesley morrisHe basically understands that he’s able to do this in some ways because anybody who has any passionate feelings for the NFL has, as a just a matter of marketing corollary, feelings for the American military.jenna worthamIn what ways?wesley morrisThe Department of Defense has spent millions of dollars trying to get these teams to recruit people— not the players—jenna worthamFascinating.wesley morrisBut the spectators— either the people at home or the people that go.jenna worthamYou can’t play football, but you can join the military.wesley morrisRight. they spent millions of dollars, mostly in the NFL, for more prominently displayed flags during the games, for actual recruitment either in the stadiums themselves or through advertising on television during games. They would stage these strange— in the context of the games they were strange. You’d have these halftime reunion specials basically—jenna worthamI remember this, yes.wesley morrisBetween troops that are just home from battle and their families during a football game.jenna worthamSo interesting.wesley morrisSo the degree to which the sport is conflated with what the military stands for is almost inextricable at this point.jenna worthamSo, basically, football games have become a pipeline for recruitment.wesley morrisYes.jenna worthamAnd advertising for the US military. Which, Mr. Morris, answers your question. Why does it feel so weird to sit during the national anthem? Because you can be accused of not being a patriot, and that’s the rhetoric that gets reinforced by what Trump says about what these protests mean.wesley morrisAnd so compounding these stress, I would say, around Colin Kaepernick’s protests is also the fact that he is unemployed. You know, by 2015, he was in a slump, he wasn’t playing well. And by 2016, he is talking about wanting to play for another team. So, in addition to fighting for his current job, he also wanted to leave open the possibility of playing somewhere else. And these protests were not helping.jenna worthamClearly.wesley morrisNobody— he’s now a hot potato and nobody wants to be caught with him in their hands.jenna worthamNobody has an oven mitt heatproof enough to handle this hot potato.wesley morrisYes.jenna worthamSo he’s out of a job. But, as we know, there’s about to be another big tectonic shift in the epic saga that is Kaepernick’s life. And we’re going to take a break and we’re going to talk about it when we come back. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickIf people say your dreams are crazy, if they laugh at what you think you can do, good. Because calling a dream crazy is not an insult, it’s a compliment. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamIn the fall of 2018, this ad drops from Nike featuring Colin Kaepernick, along with a bunch of other very famous athletes— Serena Williams, LeBron James. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickBelieve in something, even if it means sacrificing everything. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamBut Colin is the star. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickSo don’t ask if your dreams are crazy. Ask if they’re crazy enough. [END PLAYBACK]wesley morrisYes, I mean, he’s narrating the whole thing over kids falling off of skateboards.jenna worthamAnd ambitious surfers.wesley morrisAnd paralympic athletes. It is a celebration of a triumph over various adversities.jenna worthamCorrect.wesley morrisAnd the establishment of Colin Kaepernick’s relationship with Nike.jenna worthamYes. But now at this point, Colin Kaepernick has been transformed into a folk hero and also a lightning rod, which, in turn, attracted the attention of companies who know what to do with that imagery. Into the fray steps Nike— a multi-billion dollar company both to illuminate him and potentially exploit him.wesley morrisYeah, I mean, to endorse the message while also possibly diluting the message.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd, you know, this brings me back to the ad which, I have to say, is pretty mild given—jenna worthamIt needs some seasoning.wesley morrisIt needs some cayenne.jenna worthamThe holy trinity— it needs something.wesley morrisYes, it needs— some Lowry’s.jenna worthamLowry’s. No you did not.wesley morrisAnd I just feel like this was an opportunity for Nike to really step in to complete alignment with what it is Colin Kaepernick had initially been asking for with an ad that features things that we don’t want to see.jenna worthamThey actually could have believed in something even if it meant sacrificing everything.wesley morrisWell, I think you just put the nail on that one.jenna worthamOK, go on.wesley morrisBut the ad if it really— if the ad wanted to be crazy enough, would have just been a montage of the most horrible horribleness. Because—jenna worthamWow.wesley morrisBecause that’s what he is— that’s what the protest is.jenna worthamThat’s what he’s calling for to stop.wesley morrisThat’s what the kneeling was about. That’s what these other guys who are still in the league are kneeling for.jenna worthamRightwesley morrisThat’s what Black Lives Matter is protesting.jenna worthamThat’s what most black people in America want.wesley morrisYes.jenna worthamThe killing to stop.wesley morrisYes. And Nike has a long history of using causes and social activists as spokespeople to sell apparel. 1995 they had this ad featuring Rick Munoz who was an HIV-positive runner. And, of course, in ‘78, there was a Nike Liberator. I don’t know if it’s a shoe you ever wore, but the shoes were a thing. They’re still a thing. People wear them. You can pay a lot of money to get them on eBay now. So you had this history of this company being aware that there is a healthy relationship between its bottom line and the political objectives of certain social causes.jenna worthamRight. Nike sponsoring Colin is complicated. Because on one hand, it feels like this extraordinarily progressive thing. It feels very daring for Nike— like almost scandalous. Like, oh, my god, is Nike supporting Colin? Are they supporting Black Lives Matter protests? Are they are they coming out against police brutality? Actually, they’re not as far as we know. They’re simply saying, we support Colin Kaepernick as a political figure, as a social activist. But the campaign doesn’t really seem to have anything to do with his initial reasons for sitting down and then kneeling. And it’s also interesting, because a lot of people in my communities and in my circles and in my various feeds were applauding the Colin Kaepernick ads. They felt really seen by this corporate company, which I understand. I totally get it. And in some ways, I felt that way too. But I also feel very cynical about a giant, global company co-opting a social movement— which, essentially, they’re doing— that isn’t even about police brutality anymore. It’s just about the idea of what?wesley morrisOf Colin Kaepernick. We are so far from where we started in 2016. And this isn’t Colin Kaepernick’s fault. I think that the way things work now and the way he was attacked and ostracized by his employer, the industry in which his former employer worked— they basically have locked him out of getting a job. So the moral issues that you stand against when you stand with Colin Kaepernick include such things as police brutality and socioeconomic inequality, but also include getting this black man a job, standing up to President Trump, telling the racist in your town that he’s allowed to do whatever he wants as an American. If he wants to protest the national anthem, he should be able to. So it is not quite a grab bag, but there is a lot of things to protest when you stand with Colin Kaepernick. He’s become a symbol of so many things.jenna worthamAnd what does it mean when a company like Nike piggybacks on top of that symbol or they try to embody that symbol as a means to sell their products? Because, look, Nike’s stock went up 5%. That was a $6 billion— buh-buh-buh billion dollar increase in the company value after the campaign launched.wesley morrisWhat?jenna worthamAnd so you have to ask yourself a question— so who is benefiting more from this partnership, from this alliance? I feel like for me, all of my alarm bells start going off because I understand why the campaign excited a lot of people and why it felt really good to see Nike get behind Colin Kaepernick. But it also— I feel really skeptical because Nike is still under scrutiny for suspicious labor practices. There are all these anti-sweatshop protests happening against Nike because of their conduct in Vietnam where workers are claiming that they have to work really long hours and too hot conditions. I mean, the idea that somehow Nike is for whatever Colin Kaepernick’s for while still perpetuating some of the same types of oppressive practices— that even if he’s not directly speaking to, tangentially he is against the oppression of people of color— what does it mean to be parting with a company that might be participating in that at the same time?wesley morrisIt could be called Colin-washing.jenna worthamThat’s good.wesley morrisAnd to the degree that I am inclined to be cynical about this, it does involve the distance between what he meant to do in 2016 and what it means to stand up for black people, for oppressed people, for social inequality in a industrial land of plenty.jenna worthamWell, then you have at-home consumers who— whether or not they’re football fans or not— trying to figure out if burning Nikes is a protest or wearing Nike is a protest.wesley morrisYou have people actually destroying their Nike apparel to protest Nike.jenna worthamHashtag #justburnit. So you had people cutting off their swooshes, buying shoes and burning them— none of which damaged Nike’s bottom line whatsoever, we should say.wesley morrisBut I have to wonder— I have a reverse cynicism about this too. And it has everything to do with the shift of political power in this country over the last 20 years. Where what you and I want as constituents, as voters, as citizens matters increasingly less to the people who we put in office. In the last two years, you’ve had Congress people running from their constituents.jenna worthamYeah, like actually running from them.wesley morrisLiterally fleeing on foot, probably in a pair of Nikes, from their voters. So instead of governments— national, state, and local standing up for people, you now have these multinational corporations filling the void.jenna worthamThat said, though, I mean, is Nike protesting state policy if they’re just putting Colin Kaepernick’s face on a Billboard because my question is— and I’m still looking for the answer to this, but what does their balance sheet look like? Are they donating money to any of the causes that Colin cares about? Or does it count as a protest if these corporations are only shifting the needles in ways that benefit them as capitalist entities?wesley morrisWe are no longer individuals. We are constituents to these companies, because they own everything. They now are increasingly owning the government.jenna worthamRight, pretty much.wesley morrisYou can follow that money all the way to Washington because the corporate lobbies basically dictate policy. You know, we live in the United States of America, but we live also on Facebook. We live on Twitter. We live on Amazon.jenna worthamYeah, I mean, it’s interesting to think about even the president calling for his constituents that voted him into power to boycott Nike boosted the company’s returns.wesley morrisAlso, he did the same to the NFL, but the NFL went the opposite direction and made it really hard for those players to protest by basically putting their jobs on the line. So you do have this real tension where the only way to alter some of these policies is to find— when we’re talking about the president— is to find a mothra or a King Kong to go up against Donald Trump’s Godzilla.jenna worthamOf course.wesley morrisAnd Nike getting behind Colin Kaepernick— it is essentially giving him a platform that he would never have had as an unemployed football player.jenna worthamSo it’s beside the point whether or not Nike is behind the protest. The point is they’re imbuing, they’re amplifying, they’re putting halo around Colin that he, then, hopefully, in theory, then gets to— and I’m not saying whether or not this is good or bad. It’s just that this is sort of how it’s working that now he has this aura that he can spread around the causes that he cares about and hopefully affect some kind of change.wesley morrisYes, yes, yes. I mean, it’s, listen, I hate to say that it’s better than nothing, but it is kind of better than nothing.jenna worthamAnd, look, if your president is actively denouncing you, maybe it is strategic to align yourself with a giant like Nike who actually can take on the president. It becomes a question of multinationals versus nation-states. And maybe aligning with a problematic multinational is the lesser of two evils. It’s better than being out of a job and no one hearing what you have to say— although has Colin said anything lately?wesley morrisNo. That’s the other thing about this protest. It has become a silent protest. And that in and of itself is somewhat revolutionary. He doesn’t have to go on Wendy Williams to make his points. He doesn’t have to talk to Michael Strahan and Robin Roberts to make his points. We are simply wanting to know where the hell he is. And him popping up from time to time at the US Open, as one of GQ’s men of the year is in some ways satisfying enough. And he’s enough of an ambient presence to make the idea of standing against something and standing for something a real act in some ways— whether he talks about what he’s doing or not. He’s said his piece, what more could he say?jenna worthamColin Kaepernick, at least, has been pretty unwavering in his activism in a financial monetary way. He’s been donating a ton of money— over $1 million— to various charities since this whole thing began. So at least there is that.wesley morrisRight. And that in and of itself is a huge shift. Because he’s now in a position to do something that black celebrity activists had not previously been able to do.jenna worthamLike actually literally not been able to do because they were mostly broke, destitute, and shuffled out of this country.wesley morrisOr just chose to leave because it was too oppressive to stay. Josephine Baker and Paul Robeson basically wind up having— in fighting racism, wind up finding it more comfortable and safer to live abroad.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd then you have two guys like Tommie Smith and John Carlos who, in raising their fists at the ‘68 Olympics in Mexico City, received international death threats.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisFor besmirching the Olympics with quote “politics” unquote, as though the Olympics weren’t in and of themselves an inherently political activity.jenna worthamIn this country, we have a long history of black people speaking up and losing everything. But now with the backing of Nike, you see Kaepernick more powerful than ever.wesley morrisYeah, I mean, he’s suing the NFL for collusion, basically, for keeping him out of the league. But I also think that he has awakened in the average person a sense of—jenna worthamSimilar agency, honestly, and similar validation or affirmation that they have a right to be angry too.wesley morrisOr not even angry, but just curious. Just curious. I’m thinking specifically about India Landry— a high school student who was expelled from her school when she refused to say the Pledge of Allegiance. And she sued the school last year. The suit is still ongoing— has not been resolved yet. But I do think that there is this sense that what harm comes of my not standing for the Pledge of Allegiance?jenna worthamWow.wesley morrisI don’t say that I’m not American, I just don’t know that I can pledge allegiance to a flag under which there are any number of things I have a problem with that my government either seems to perpetuate or neglect or ignore.jenna worthamRight. So, Wesley, what you’re illuminating for me is bigger than my initial cynicism about Nike— or it just puts it in a new perspective, which is Nike’s intentions are kind of irrelevant. Because what’s happened is something that can’t be put back in a box. So you’ve got India Landry feeling emboldened to exercise her right as an American to take a stand and to say, I’m not OK with this. I dissent. So I guess for me, I’m coming around to— I’m softening a little bit of my earlier critique and I’m raising this question. I don’t know that I want this to be what I define as progress at this moment in time, but this might be as good as it gets. And, more importantly, are we OK with it?wesley morrisJenna Wortham, you just asked me whether or not Nike’s sponsorship, co-opting, standing alongside in support of Colin Kaepernick— whether that is OK. And in as much as it has brought people to the brink of thinking about these issues that he’s protesting— or even what it means to align themselves or tolerate or think about some of the things that he is asking us to think about despite the sort of benign aspect of those advertisements— which, really, if they wanted to be— what’s the tagline? What’s the other tagline in that ad?jenna worthamI got to look it up. Hold on, hold on. At the very end of the ad, Colin Kaepernick shakes out his fro and says— and it gets exponentially bigger— it fills the screen. That doesn’t happen. But Colin Kaepernick says, “don’t ask if your dreams are crazy, ask if they’re crazy enough.”wesley morrisNow I think I’m pretty OK with Nike’s sponsorship of Colin Kaepernick. As we’ve discussed, complicated. Complicated.jenna worthamI hear you, but I don’t buy Nikes now and I’m not going to because Colin’s on the face those billboards. Now someone did buy me a pair of Nike’s because I have a bad back and I do wear them sometimes. But I will not give them money. And it doesn’t diminish my love of Colin Kaepernick and the support or the support for BLM. It doesn’t. It’s just complicated.wesley morrisComplicated, but I’m mostly on board with it because I understand the sort of political necessity of it.jenna worthamOK, go on.wesley morrisSo as I’m sitting there at that opera, it occurs to me as I’m standing here talking to you now— I was at the opera watching Samson and Delilah. Which, if you don’t know—jenna worthamI don’t know. It’s been a while since I’ve held a Bible, so please refresh my memory.wesley morrisIt is simply the basic story of a woman and a man who meet and fell in love. She is powerful, he is powerful. She learns that the secret to his strength is in his hair— his long hair. So she cuts his hair.jenna worthamI’m sorry. I just— OK, go on.wesley morrisNobody said the Bible was the gospel truth, it’s the gospel.jenna worthamWait, wait— so what you’re saying is in this narrative, it’s possible that Colin Kaepernick is the—wesley morrisSamson.jenna worthamAnd Nike’s the—wesley morrisDelilah.jenna worthamSo, Colin, don’t let Nike give you a relaxer— stay afro strong, right?wesley morrisYes. Colin, you’ve got to keep that afro.jenna worthamKeep them cornrows. Keep them in.wesley morrisI think that there is a degree to which the fame and the spokesperson would run the risk of collapsing or completely taking over the protest element of what he’s trying to do.jenna worthamRight. It’s a cautionary tale. And it’s a cautionary tale not just for Colin Kaepernick, but really anyone who is at the risk of co-option or at the risk of being wielded by a corporation for their own consumer benefit under the guise of political or social activism. I mean, look— the relationship between Nike and Colin Kaepernick goes beyond this particular moment. Corporations are interested in capitalizing on black cool. They always have been and they’re willing to do it in any way that makes sense. And it’s happening on a scale as large as Nike to as small as influencers on Instagram. What Colin does sets a template for what other highly visible famous or slightly famous black people decide to do when companies reach out to them and want to promote them because of their alignment with social movement and social activism. It’s just a much bigger deal than just this moment in time. So maybe the question that we’re asking should be different. It’s not whether or not we’re OK with Nike’s sponsorship of Colin Kaepernick, it’s whether or not Colin Kaepernick can survive and whether or not the movement that Colin Kaepernick started can survive the sponsorship of Nike— because it has to. It actually has to.wesley morrisIt has to. Still Processing is a product of the New York Times.jenna worthamIt is produced by Nina Pathak.wesley morrisOur editors are Sasha Weiss and Larissa Anderson.jenna worthamWe have editorial oversight from Lisa Tobin and Samantha Henig.wesley morrisAnd our engineer is Jake Gorski.jenna worthamOur theme music is by Kindness. It’s called “World Restart” from the album, “Otherness.”wesley morrisAnd you can find all our other episodes at nytimes.com/stillprocessing.jenna worthamAnd, as always, if you’re so inclined, feel free to leave us a review at Apple podcasts.wesley morrisThanks for listening, everybody.jenna worthamBye.By Wesley Morris and Jenna WorthamLast fall, Nike released a groundbreaking ad featuring the former N.F.L. quarterback Colin Kaepernick. His kneeling protest, which started in 2016 as a response to police brutality, was reinterpreted by social media, celebrities and Nike itself to mean something that doesn’t always match the intention of his original protest. So what does it say that a multinational corporation has aligned itself with a social movement? And are we O.K. with this form of “Kaepitalism”?Discussed this week:“Samson et Dalila” at the Metropolitan OperaJennifer Lee Chan’s tweet showing Colin Kaepernick not standing for the national anthem (Aug. 27, 2016)Colin Kaepernick explaining why he won’t stand for the national anthem (Aug. 28, 2016)“Colin Kaepernick and the Question of Who Gets to Be Called a ‘Patriot’” (Wesley Morris, The New York Times Magazine, Sept. 12, 2016)Nike’s ad featuring Colin Kaepernick (September 2018)“Nike’s Colin Kaepernick ad sparked a boycott — and earned $6 billion for Nike” (Alex Abad-Santos, Vox, Sept. 24, 2018)“This Could Be the Next Step for the New, Socially Conscious Nike” (Sarah Spellings, The Cut, Sept. 6, 2018)“Nike Is Facing a New Wave of Anti-Sweatshop Protests” (Marc Bain, Quartz, Aug. 1, 2017)Wesley Morris is the critic at large for The New York Times and a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine. Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for the magazine.“Still Processing” is produced by Neena Pathak and edited by Larissa Anderson and Sasha Weiss, with editorial oversight from Lisa Tobin and Samantha Henig. Our theme music is by Kindness. It’s called “World Restart,” from the album “Otherness.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe underdoggery and romance of my childhood are out. Dynastic rule and the creation of a great new American institution are in.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistI became a besotted baseball fan at the age of 6, watching the Boston Red Sox, my mother’s ancestral team, march to the World Series against the New York Mets. My parents woke me up near midnight on Oct. 25, 1986, to come downstairs with them and “watch the Red Sox win” — an eventuality that was, at that moment, just a single out away. It remained one out away through three singles, a devastating wild pitch and an incident that shall not be described involving one William Joseph Buckner. I wept, slept and awoke a gloomy pessimist, forever haunted by the fall of man.I became a football fan around the same time, and I figured I should root for the Patriots as well, in New England solidarity. They had recently played (albeit embarrassingly badly) in a Super Bowl, so I was unaware of their long, distinguished legacy of lousy play. But by the time I turned 10 and they were working their way through a 1-15 season, with a 2-14 encore just around the corner, I understood a little better the implications of my choice.This combination of Red Sox tragedy and Patriot futility defined my relationship to professional sports until adulthood, at which point (as you may have heard) absolutely everything changed for both teams and they became insufferably dominant. And my fandom, forged in suffering and melodrama and “wait ’till next year” rue, never quite recovered from my favorite teams’ success.Everyone leaves certain childish things behind, of course. But there is no greater chasm in the remembered continuity of the self than the gulf separating me from the version of myself whose mind was at least 35 percent baseball from February until October and 20 percent football for the rest of the year, who screamed and raved my way through crucial games and crucial months, and who once talked a boss into letting me off work early because of the psychic damage inflicted by Aaron Boone’s Sox-crushing, American League Championship Series-winning home run the prior night.I remember that person, but I can’t remember how he felt. And trying to raise my children to be New England sports fans in an age of constant New England winning has given me real sympathy with the lukewarmly religious, the Christmas-and-Easter sort of believer who wants to impart some measure of piety to their children without really experiencing the flame of faith themselves.There are reasons besides Bostonian sports success for the dying of that flame. My current editors probably wouldn’t let me out of column writing after a devastating loss, and normal adult obligations leave less time for rereading Roger Angell’s season-recapping baseball essays for the 847th time.But the frequent triumphs of the Sox and Pats have been crucial to my loss of ardor. In the old days I was always mystified about how Yankee fans stirred up the same excitement year after year despite their constant winning, and as my teams became increasingly Yankee-like the mystification remained. Indeed, I missed the thirst enough to seek the feeling elsewhere — adopting long-suffering franchises temporarily (until the Kansas City Royals ruined our affair by winning the World Series) to remind myself of what it was like to nourish long-unrequited hopes.Despite that infidelity, though, I’ve never taken the step of actually rooting against one of my childhood teams. Which has kept me connected to both of them, however dutifully.And now that the Patriots have ground their way, in a terrible-to-watch game highlighted by punts, to yet another Super Bowl victory, I want to report a change in my sports psychology. In my dutiful connection to the latest run of Patriot Super Bowl appearances, I have begun to feel something different, strange and unfamiliar — not a recovery of the old romance, but a growing appreciation of pure, ruthless effectiveness, an admiration for iron efficiency, a joy at the dismantling of highly touted rivals, a feeling that almost … almost … makes me begin to have a trace of a scintilla of understanding for what it feels like to be a Yankees fan.I say this as someone who feels no particularly personal sympathy or affection for the two men, Bill Belichick and Tom Brady, who have delivered the Patriots their extraordinary dynasty. Belichick is an unpleasant perfectionist whose cultivated public misanthropy and “look at me, a slob” outfits often seem like an irritating sort of performance art. Brady preferred the supermodel charms of Gisele Bündchen to Bridget Moynahan, the nice Catholic ex-girlfriend (I saw them at Mass together once, so I'm totally in her camp) who was carrying his child — and then succumbed, via Gisele, to a pro-athlete equivalent of the Gwyneth Paltrow-Goop worldview.And without delving into the arcana of Deflategate, it’s obvious that the Patriots’ search for a competitive edge has taken them to at least the edge of, you know, cheating.So the old fake-personal bond that I felt for my flawed New England heroes — Yaz! Nomah! Bledsoe! — isn’t there with Brady and Belichick today. What is there, and increasingly as their dynasty has become more improbably extended, is something very different: a zest for on-field excellence simply for its own sake, a forgiveness of personal and even moral deficiencies because the record speaks for itself, a setting aside of feel-good narratives and romantic underdog stories because the sheer force of winning trumps them all.Oh, did someone say Trump? Yes, it’s appropriate that the Patriots are Donald Trump’s favorite team, but not because they have too many white players or because their consistent, grinding, rigorous success somehow resembles his improbable and often ridiculous ascent. Rather it’s because the Patriots are the actual thing that his grifter’s instincts and “Great Again” sloganeering are constantly trying to evoke — a dependably, reliably excellent American institution, of the kind that people in the pre-Vietnam era took for granted, and that our own era struggles to reproduce.The Patriots are to football what the Apollo and Manhattan Projects were to military-industrial-complex science, what IBM and General Motors were to big business, what the Hoover Dam and Mount Rushmore were to public works — with Belichick as their Patton-meets-Eisenhower impresario, by turns a jerk and a bore but a winner above all. They are a throwback, a constant rebuke to the decadence visible in every other American institution (their First Fan’s White House very much included), a last bloom of the can-do genius that won us World War II …… sorry, getting a little carried away here. The point is that unlike my beloved Red Sox, who now win just often enough to make me feel some Catholic-with-Calvinist-ancestors guilt over their success, the Patriots have over the last few years passed into new territory, a new sphere of fan experience. For the first time since I was in college and they were scrappy underdogs, their every victory makes me want them to win more — to boldly go, like Neil Armstrong and James T. Kirk, where no team has gone before …… sorry, carried away again. The point, the point, is that I am a changed fan, or at least a changing one. With every Patriot victory, I am winning the victory over myself. I am shedding old habits, jettisoning the underdoggery and romance of my childhood, learning to love dynastic rule.The Super Bowl is over. But next season is coming. Brady isn’t retiring. Belichick is going back to his tapes and plots and schemes. Six Super Bowl rings? That’s nothing.How did Patton put it? Americans love a winner and can’t tolerate a loser. Americans play to win all the time …Let’s make it seven.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA football fan reflects on a year without Tom Brady.By Alex KingsburyMr. Kingsbury is a member of the editorial board.I’m pleased that the New England Patriots made it to the A.F.C. championship game again this year. On Sunday, they’ll play the Kansas City Chiefs at 6:40 p.m., and the winner will advance to the Super Bowl.I’ve been a Patriots fan my entire life, long before they were good enough to loathe. But I won’t be watching football this weekend. I haven’t watched a single pass or tackle all season.I don’t remember much about last year’s A.F.C. championship game between the Patriots and the Jacksonville Jaguars. But I’ll never forget the sound.The Pats were down 14-3 with 1:23 left in the second quarter when the tight end Rob Gronkowski tried to catch a long, lofted pass from the quarterback, Tom Brady. He almost had it. But the Jags’ safety, Barry Church, hit Mr. Gronkowski just as he was pulling it down.Their hard plastic helmets hit each other with such force that — even through the tinny speakers on my television — it sounded like a rifle shot. You can see and hear the collision here.It still echoes in my ears. As the sound of the hit faded into a commercial break, I realized with absolute certainty that I couldn’t watch football anymore. There aren’t enough yards to gain or Super Bowl rings to win that are worth the cost.To use a euphemism from the era before we knew about brain damage, Mr. Gronkowski “got his bell rung.” Shaken by the impact, he struggled to his feet, wobbled and was helped off the field with a concussion. Mr. Church was fined $24,309 by the N.F.L. for an illegal hit.“I hope he’s all right,” Mr. Church said after the game. “If you go low for the knees, you are considered a dirty player, and if you go high, they throw the flag at you. It’s a bang-bang play, and I was just trying to play football.”“It’s football,” Mr. Gronkowski later told the press. “It is what it is.”And that’s the problem.The first research into the link between football and traumatic brain injury was published in 2005. Since then, the science has become impossible to ignore. In 2017, The Journal of the American Medical Association published the results of the autopsies of the brains of 111 deceased former N.F.L. players, whose relatives gave their bodies up for study. The group was not a random sample, yet 110 showed signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., a degenerative brain disease linked to concussions. Research published in November estimated that a minimum of 10 percent of all professional football players would develop C.T.E. at some point in their lives. Professional athletes are well compensated for their dangerous job. But the pipeline is a problem. It can take more than a decade of hard hits to make it to a college team or the pros.Research published in The Journal of Pediatrics last month found that concussion rates for youth football players were higher than previously reported. In all, some 5 percent of all youth football players receive concussions each year, a figure that may sound low, but compounds with each additional year of play. In 2017, a study found that playing football before age 12 doubled the risk of problems with behavioral regulation, apathy and executive functioning. It tripled the risk of elevated depression.It’s little wonder that lawmakers last year in New York, Illinois, California, Maryland and New Jersey introduced bills to ban or restrict youth tackle football.All this isn’t the snowflaking of the next generation of American men. It’s physics. Technology — in the form of, say, better helmets — will not save the game. Researchers note that helmets don’t prevent all concussions and might be making the problem worse, by giving players a false sense of invincibility.The dangers of the game are clear to the insurance companies that cover youth and professional leagues. An investigation published by ESPN’s “Outside the Lines” this week found that the insurance market for youth football is “fundamentally altering the economics of the sport, squeezing and even killing off programs faced with higher costs and a scarcity of available coverage.”“People say football will never go away, but if we can't get insurance, it will,” Jon Butler, the executive director of the youth football program Pop Warner, is reported to have said. The report said that the N.F.L. is also having problems finding companies willing to insure against head injuries.With no safe way to play — short of flag football — it’s little wonder that participation in youth football is on the decline. Some high schools have dropped the sport altogether, while state legislatures are passing and updating concussion laws to ensure schools that do field teams take the issue seriously. Every state now has a concussion law on the books.Nor is it surprising that some younger N.F.L. players are calling it quits. Mr. Gronkowski, now 29, reportedly considered retirement after last season. Reports say he’s considering doing so after this one, too.There are still Newton deniers, who contest his laws of physics, which explain how the human brain slams into the interior walls of the skull during a concussion.“Your body gets used to the hits,” the Patriots’ Tom Brady told a sports radio show last month. “The brain understands the position that you are putting your body into, and my brain is wired for contact. I would say in some ways it has become callous to some of the hits.”Mr. Brady’s former teammate, Ted Johnson, spent 10 years in the N.F.L. and told The Times in 2007, at age 34, that he was suffering from symptoms characteristic of early Alzheimer’s disease as a results of concussions. “There's something wrong with my brain,” he said.Mr. Johnson called Mr. Brady’s recent remarks about concussions “irresponsible.” “I’ll be honest, and I love Tom, it made me throw up in my mouth a little bit,” he said.Despite all these concerns, there’s little indication that football will be dethroned as America’s favorite sport. Television ratings, which have taken some hard hits of their own over the past few years, have rebounded this season. And the Super Bowl might be the most communal experience the country has in 2019.This Sunday, I won’t begrudge my father, who’ll watch the game delayed on DVR, so he doesn’t have to endure commercials to get to the 11 minutes of action. Nor my cousin, who’ll bet money on the game. Seeing the occasional Patriots hat or jersey on the street is a nice reminder of the tribe I’ve parted ways with. Because as long as I can hear the sound of Gronk getting his bell rung, I’ll find something else to watch. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Cindy ShmerlerMIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Stephen M. Ross swears he is not embroiled in a third-set tiebreaker with Larry Ellison, the billionaire co-founder of Oracle who bought the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., a decade ago and transformed it into a tony desert party for tennis players and fans.Still, when the moved and improved Miami Open begins this week at Hard Rock Stadium, home of Ross’s Miami Dolphins, it will not be hard to imagine Ross, a billionaire real estate developer, keeping a tiny scorecard in his back pocket.“Larry’s done a great job,” Ross said. “He set the bar high, and it’s all great for tennis. But for us, it’s more natural not to compete, or at least to do so in our own way.”Ross, who bought the Dolphins in 2008 and spent $550 million renovating the stadium, stepped in when IMG, which owns the Miami Open, found itself at an impasse with a Key Biscayne resident who controlled the land where the tournament had been played since 1987.That man, Bruce Matheson, refused to allow $50 million worth of renovations to the Crandon Park site, and his prolonged lawsuits convinced the tournament that it was time to go.Rather than see the tournament — and its hundreds of millions in local revenue — uprooted from South Florida to Orlando or China, Ross decided to partner with IMG and move the tournament about 20 miles northwest to his football stadium. He spent an additional $72 million to transform it into a state-of-the-art tennis venue.The move wasn’t well received by everyone.“Key Biscayne had a very intimate setting, and you can’t beat the drive over the Rickenbacker Causeway, with blue water on both sides of you,” said John Isner, the defending Miami Open champion. “We had a lot of history in that place, and that stadium court will always be very special to me.”At the new site, a temporary main court was erected on the football field, with half of the seats were blocked off by screens. A 5,191-seat grandstand court, two other show courts and eight additional match courts — all permanent — were built on top of parking lots.On a recent tour, those lots were indiscernible behind purple flowers, artificial grass, 35-foot mature palm trees costing $35,000 a pop, and a giant fountain that guards one of the many entrances to the stadium. There is also a 40-by-90-foot video screen, the largest in tennis, just outside the stadium in a spot modeled after Wimbledon’s Henman Hill, minus the grass.The change recalls the United States Open’s move from the charming but outgrown West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills in 1978 to the more functional, if less romantic, U.S.T.A. Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in nearby Flushing Meadows. It took a while to get used to the new digs, but no one would ever want to go back to the old ones.“This place has a much larger footprint, so we can do more things,” said Tom Garfinkel, the Dolphins’ chief executive. “We are giving people an unprecedented luxury experience in tennis, just like the N.F.L.”Tournament organizers did not take the word “luxury” lightly. The stadium court — painted in colors called Oasis Blue and Biscayne Blue — seats 13,800, the same as the main court in Key Biscayne. But this court features 4,738 premium seats, many that resemble Barcaloungers, with individual television screens. These seats range in price from $50,000 to $70,000 for the two-week tournament. Some are right on the court.Premium-seat packages, most of which were sold out two months before the start of the tournament, include private dining rooms. Some suites have seats made out of Ferrari leather. For a privileged 1,000 visitors, there is a dedicated entrance from a private parking lot, in which spectators pass through a tent lined with art, including works by Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol that can be purchased for upward of $1 million.Ticket prices at every level have increased by up to 40 percent over last year, though several thousand grounds passes are available for as little as $15 each day. Sales by the end of last month were up 25 percent, thanks, in part, to Dolphins season-ticket holders who have been cajoled into watching tennis.“There’s a bit of a challenge in giving people the confidence that this really is for the best,” said James Blake, the tournament director.Ross helped choose everything on the site: the flowers, the gigantic paintings that line the stadium corridors, the tiles on the bathroom walls.“I had a picture in my head of what I wanted this to look like, the same way I do my real estate deals,” said Ross, who is also behind Manhattan’s Hudson Yards project. “It’s all in the details. Little things matter. People notice, and they’re watching for those details.”The number of practice courts, many with spectator seating, have doubled from those at Key Biscayne, to 18. But unlike in Key Biscayne, those courts will not be turned over for the public to play on after the tournament ends.The players, at least, should be happy. Their amenities have been enhanced, with dining areas and gym spaces tripling in size. The top eight seeds in the men’s and women’s singles draws, as well as all former champions, will be given private suites to be used by their entourages.But organizers see the event as more than a tennis tournament. The grounds will open at least two hours before play begins each day to encourage people to come early to eat, shop and listen to concerts by local musicians.“What we wanted was a venue that would allow us the freedom and flexibility to grow and innovate the event,” said Mark Shapiro, president of Endeavor, IMG’s parent company. “Key Biscayne was lovely, but we simply outgrew it. What we’ve got now is going to be supernatural, like walking through a Lollapalooza, and a tennis tournament grew out of it. Forget becoming the fifth major, we’re the new U.S. Open.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirAlbert J. Dunlap, a tough-talking executive whose ardor for turning around troubled companies by laying off workers and closing factories earned him the nickname Chainsaw Al, but whose career ended in an accounting scandal, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 81.The cause was prostate cancer, said Eric Carr, a friend and executive with the fund-raising arm of Florida State University athletics, to which Mr. Dunlap pledged more than $40 million.Mr. Dunlap portrayed himself as a foe of corporate waste and a servant of the shareholders who benefited from his actions. In the 1990s, when he ran Scott Paper, he laid off 11,200 workers; it was just one measure he took that brought him financial rewards of $100 million in salary, stock profits and other compensation after engineering the company’s sale to Kimberly-Clark in 1995.“Sure, people had to get fired, but as time goes by that company will grow and prosper and new jobs will be created,” he told The South Florida Sun-Sentinel soon after.Mr. Dunlap was soon hired by Sunbeam Corporation, an appliance maker, and within a month anticipation on Wall Street about Mr. Dunlap’s plans to overhaul the company sent its shares soaring by 73 percent. He did not disappoint the traders: He promptly announced that he would halve Sunbeam’s work force of 12,000 people; close or sell most of its plants and other facilities; and pare its number of product lines.“I’ve done this enough times to recognize the death gurgle of a corporation,” he told  the reporter Hedrick Smith for “Surviving the Bottom Line,” a PBS documentary series. “And this corporation had the death gurgle.”Unlike other corporate executives who laid off even more employees, the preternaturally confident Mr. Dunlap unapologetically boasted that the brutal efficiency of his methods was critical to saving the jobs that were not axed. In 1996, for example, he stepped forward when dozens of other executives refused to speak to Newsweek for a cover article, titled “Corporate Killers,” about downsizing.“We’re painted as villains but we’re not,” Mr. Dunlap said. “We’re more like doctors. We know it’s painful to operate, but it’s the only way to keep the patient from dying.”He said he was an advocate of corporate governance reforms, like paying directors in stock instead of cash, to better align their interests with those of shareholders, and limiting directors to single five-year terms.Mr. Dunlap played to the image of a bull in a corporate china shop, accepting nicknames like “Rambo in Pinstripes” and “The Shredder.” He preached his motto — “You’re not in business to be liked. If you want a friend, get a dog” — and wrote an autobiography with the title “Mean Business: How I Saved Bad Companies and Make Good Companies Great” (1996, with Bob Andelman).“The Al Dunlaps of the world would not be hired if corporate people did their jobs,” he wrote. “But because some executives can’t make decisions or consistently make the wrong decisions, their incompetence virtually screams out for an Al Dunlap.”His critics included Robert B. Reich, the secretary of labor in 1996, when Mr. Dunlap announced that he was laying off half of Sunbeam’s workers.“There is no excuse for treating employees as if they are disposable pieces of equipment,” Mr. Reich said in an interview with The New York Times that year.A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018Albert John Dunlap was born on July 26, 1937, in Hoboken, N.J. Differing family accounts say his father was either a dockworker or a boilermaker and his mother either a store clerk or a homemaker. Albert played football in high school in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., and boxed as a cadet at the United States Military Academy.After graduation, he trained as a paratrooper at Fort Benning, Ga., then served as an officer at a nuclear missile facility in Maryland.He began his business career in Kimberly Clark’s management training program, working on “the third shift at a dirty, smelly paper mill,” he wrote in his book. After four years there, and rising to project leader, he was hired by Sterling Pulp & Paper as general superintendent and started turning its faltering operations around.A decade later he joined American Can in its strategic planning group, then moved to jobs at Lily-Tulip Cup, a large paper cup manufacturer; Crown Zellerbach, a timber and pulp corporation; and Consolidated Press Holdings, a media and publishing company in Australia.He was named chairman and chief executive of Scott in 1994, taking on a company burdened by high debt and depressed earnings. Within two years he had arranged its sale to Kimberly-Clark for $6.8 billion and left to take over Sunbeam.But in June 1998, Mr. Dunlap’s corporate career came to a quick end.Sunbeam’s board fired him in the wake of several quarterly earnings disappointments and regulatory filings that showed that Sunbeam had essentially applied 1998 payments — from retailers buying barbecue grills — to the previous year’s books, creating a false picture of a surge in 1997 sales.Shareholders soon filed suit against Mr. Dunlap and the company. With a crushing debt load, Sunbeam filed for bankruptcy in 2001.The news continued to get worse for Mr. Dunlap, even in the years after he left Sunbeam.In 2002, he and other Sunbeam executives paid $15 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit that accused them of using inflated stock prices to complete the company’s purchases of Coleman, a manufacturer of camping and leisure products, and First Alert, a maker of smoke alarms.Later that year, Mr. Dunlap settled a civil suit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission that accused him of several counts of accounting fraud that misrepresented Sunbeam’s financial results. He paid a $500,000 fine and agreed to be barred from ever again serving as an officer or director of a company. He neither admitted nor denied the allegations.In a second edition of his autobiography, published in 2014, Mr. Dunlap deleted nearly everything he had written about Sunbeam.Survivors include his wife, Judy Stringer, but complete information about survivors was not immediately available.In recent years Mr. Dunlap was a prominent supporter of Florida State, where he gave $5 million to build a Student Success Center on its Tallahassee campus, and announced a gift of $20 million last October to help build a football facility, which bears his name. A statue of Mr. Dunlap stands outside it.For all his generosity to Florida State, however, Mr. Dunlap’s reputation rests more on his being an unbridled cost-cutter whose actions enriched shareholders and himself.“I’m a superstar in my field, much like Michael Jordan in basketball and Bruce Springsteen in rock ‘n’ roll,” he wrote in his autobiography. “My pay should be compared to superstars in other fields, not to the average C.E.O.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill Cowan(If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s  the sign-up.)Good Monday morning.Over the weekend, you may have missed the news that even after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families at the border, more than 200 children were taken from parents and other relatives, and that the state’s taxpayers will shoulder $1.8 million in legal costs from sexual harassment investigations in the California Legislature over the course of last year and January.But there will be plenty of time this week to think about weighty issues affecting our state. Instead, we thought it’d be nice to ease back with a visual walk-through of wildflowers.Recently, I wrote about how fires followed by heavy rains were likely to spur super blooms across Southern California this year, and how you can see some wildflowers for yourself.Casey Schreiner, the founder and editor of the website Modern Hiker, told me that the best way to see a peak wildflower bloom is to do your research and be flexible.For some of you, though, it might be tough to drop everything to go camping. And motels near parks may already be booked up.So last week, I visited Anza-Borrego Desert State Park with John Francis Peters, a San Diego-based photographer, in an effort to bring you the next best thing.After a stop at the Anza-Borrego Desert Natural History Association’s storefront in tiny Borrego Springs, where we got some advice about where to find the best blooms, we headed out to a short trail near the end of Di Giorgio Road.And while I’ve been on some great hikes before, I’d never experienced anything quite like it.Not only did the colors of the purple sand verbena, golden desert sunflowers and brown-eyed evening primrose roll down from the mountains like a stunning carpet, the air was also lush and fragrant.Over the course of the day, we came across hikers from Sweden and Canada.We also met Anjelica and Megan Sloan, who live in Seattle, as they headed back to the road with their almost-2-year-old daughter, Sawyer.Megan said she hadn’t seen a wildflower bloom since she was a kid.“We’ll see if she remembers,” she added with a smile, gesturing toward Sawyer, who was planted on the trail, examining the sand.Anjelica Sloan said that they hiked frequently in Washington, but that the desert was something else.“The contrast between the mountains and the shadows and the flowers is just remarkable,” she said.Cindy English, who brought her dog, Wilma, from San Diego, said she’d been heading to the desert to see wildflowers for decades. This year’s explosion, she said, has brought the “most diversity of flowers” that she’s seen.Are you persuaded to pack your bags? If you can get there before hordes of sphinx moth caterpillars eat the blossoms, the Theodore Payne Foundation’s weekly wildflower report can help you figure out where to go.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• House Democrats spent the week fighting about how much and when to police the speech of their colleagues. [The New York Times]• In the Senate, Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris are a study in contrasts. “Do you advance your politics in today’s day and age by being the most compelling and forceful, or do you do it by being the best able to find compromise solutions?” [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A U.S.C. music student, Victor McElhaney, was shot and killed in an apparent robbery off campus. He was a jazz studies major, the son of an Oakland councilwoman and an active member of the university’s Center for Black Cultural and Student Affairs. [The Los Angeles Times]• “I didn’t think he’d get his death sentence here.” A doctor on a video screen told a patient at a Fremont Kaiser Permanente hospital that he was near death. It left his relatives aghast and resurrected thorny debates about the pitfalls of telemedicine. [The New York Times]• Newspapers are contracting or closing at an alarming rate, leaving behind communities — like Fresno, where the paper has suffered cuts — whose government officials are more likely to spend wastefully, research shows. [The Associated Press]• A federal judge in Oakland paved the way for college football and basketball players to receive more compensation than they do now. But the ruling didn’t go as far as some proponents had hoped. [The New York Times]• Paris has the Eiffel Tower; St. Louis has the Gateway Arch. Now, San Jose — a.k.a. Silicon Valley — wants a monument to, well, Silicon Valley. [The New York Times]•  Salesforce’s 20th anniversary was Friday. Here’s a timeline showing how it went from zero to $13 billion, from a Telegraph Hill apartment to San Francisco’s tallest building. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A viral illness knocked Serena Williams out of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells. [The New York Times]• In her new film, “Gloria Bell,” set in a hazily lit L.A., Julianne Moore takes on a radical role: An ordinary, flawed 50-something woman navigating life. [The New York Times]California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq Panja and Kevin DraperNevada law enforcement officials investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo have requested a sample of the player’s DNA from the Italian authorities, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department confirmed Thursday evening.Mr. Ronaldo, a Portuguese wing and five-time world player of the year, plays in Italy for the powerhouse club Juventus.“The LVMPD is taking the same steps in this case as in any other sexual assault to facilitate the collection of DNA evidence,” Laura Meltzer, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police, said in a statement. The department declined to give any additional information about the investigation.Investigators are seeking the DNA sample as part of a recently reopened investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Mr. Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.“Mr. Ronaldo has always maintained, as he does today, that what occurred in Las Vegas in 2009 was consensual in nature, so it is not surprising that DNA would be present, nor that the police would make this very standard request as part of their investigation,” one of Ronaldo’s lawyers, Peter S. Christiansen, said in a statement Thursday.Juventus declined to comment.Mr. Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it first emerged in October; Mr. Ronaldo labeled them “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations.The magazine, Der Spiegel, said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment to settle it, from the shadowy whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the alleged rape, following up on information it said had been provided to them by the victim.A number of the documents Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Ms. Mayorga. Mr. Ronaldo’s lawyers described the publication of the documents, which included a questionnaire Der Spiegel said detailed events that occurred in a suite at the Palms hotel almost a decade ago, as “blatantly illegal.”Mr. Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Ms. Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said.According to her lawsuit, Ms. Mayorga reported the assault to the police later that day and received a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Ms. Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at that time. The case was reopened at Ms. Mayorga’s request in September.News of the warrant came two days after a second woman, Jasmine Lennard, an English model and reality television star who previously wrote a tell-all about her relationship with Mr. Ronaldo, accused him of violent behavior in a series of posts on Twitter.In more than a dozen posts, Ms. Lennard said Mr. Ronaldo had threatened to “have me kidnapped and have my body cut up and put in a bag and thrown in a river” if she dated somebody else. She also tweeted offers of help to Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers.She did not share the “hundreds of messages” she said she had kept, however, and later deleted her Twitter account. In a statement provided to a British newspaper, Mr. Ronaldo’s legal team said the player had never had contact with Ms. Lennard, and would take “appropriate legal action in due course.”Ms. Lennard could not be reached for comment on her accusations.Larissa Drohobyczer, a lawyer for Ms. Mayorga, confirmed in an email that she had spoken to Ms. Lennard. She did not have any details of the Las Vegas police investigation, but added: “The issuance of the warrant for Ronaldo’s DNA shows that the LVMPD is taking this investigation seriously.”In the months since the reports in Der Spiegel, which came shortly after Mr. Ronaldo’s move from Real Madrid to Juventus in a deal worth more than $114 million, Mr. Ronaldo has tried to brush aside the scandal by focusing on his game — he leads the Italian league in scoring with 14 goals — and promoting his brand.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sophie HaigneyA stunt that went wrong on the set of the TV show “L.A.’s Finest” last week, leaving two producers injured, is the latest in a string of incidents that have drawn renewed attention to the dangers of stunt work. It came just days after the Occupational Safety and Health Administration cited a subsidiary of CBS for a stunt-related injury, and after a lawsuit was filed by the widow of a man who worked as a stunt double.The “L.A.’s Finest” accident, which occurred Thursday on the set of the drama series, involved a stunt with a vehicle. “The vehicle’s trajectory led to a collision with set pieces in the safe viewing area,” said Philip Sokoloski, a spokesman for FilmLA, the official film office for the City and County of Los Angeles. The show is produced by Sony Pictures Television and is set to premiere this spring on Spectrum as the cable provider’s first original series.The two producers who were injured were transported to two different hospitals in the area for treatment, Sokoloski said. He said that filming scheduled for Feb. 22 had been postponed.The Sony Pictures Television president, Jeff Frost, and co-presidents Chris Parnell and Jason Clodfelter, said in a statement: “Our hearts go out to our SPT family members who were injured and we pray for a full recovery.” The California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, Cal/OSHA, confirmed that it was investigating the accident.Stunt work is a sometimes dangerous and physically difficult subset of the entertainment industry. In a report in The New York Times in 2017, some stuntmen and women described a macho culture and a “gung-ho mentality.” Safety concerns have been raised for decades, especially after the death of an actor and two children in a helicopter crash on the set of “Twilight Zone: The Movie” in 1982, but there has been little success in efforts toward regulation. Fatalities are uncommon, although in 2017, a stuntwoman died on the set of “Deadpool 2” and a stuntman died on the set of “The Walking Dead.” Data about injuries on sets are sketchy and unreliable, as are most workplace safety statistics, which largely rely on information self-reported by employers.But recent regulatory action brought some safety issues to light again: Last week, OSHA cited Eye Productions Inc., a division of CBS, for “failing to protect employees from hazards” in August 2018. A man was injured on the set of “MacGyver” while performing a stunt on a moving vehicle traveling at 18 miles per hour; OSHA said he did not have “adequate head protection.” The proposed penalty is $9,472.A representative for CBS declined to comment on the citation and the fine.Also last week, the widow of the former football player and stunt double Darryl Hammond filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles that named the Walt Disney Company, Paramount Pictures and Columbia Pictures as defendants, along with the Arena Football League. The suit claims that while filming movies including “The Longest Yard” and “Invincible,” Hammond, who died in 2017, suffered traumatic head injuries that exposed him to neurodegenerative diseases. It alleges negligence, wrongful death and breach of contract, among other things. Representatives for Disney and Paramount did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the lawsuit; a spokeswoman for Sony Pictures Entertainment, of which Columbia Pictures is a subsidiary, declined to comment.Peter Libbey contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonLawyers for Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, and 14 other men charged with soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla., have filed a motion in Palm Beach County, Fla., to keep private all evidence in the case, which includes hidden camera video of the men inside a massage parlor over several days in late January.In the filing, the lawyers said the evidence had not been produced in discovery, and therefore should remain confidential. The lawyers added that their clients “dispute the position of the prosecutors that there may be a ‘victim’ of any offense at issue in these cases,” a suggestion that they do not believe sex trafficking was taking place at the massage parlor, as prosecutors have alleged.In asking the court to seal the evidence, the lawyers may be trying to prevent the evidence from leaking and becoming public, which could be embarrassing.Mr. Kraft, by far the most well-known defendant in the group, pleaded not guilty to two first-degree misdemeanor solicitation charges at the end of February. The prosecutors said Mr. Kraft, who is accused as a first-time offender, was unlikely to face jail time in this case.On Tuesday, the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County offered Mr. Kraft and the 24 other men who were similarly accused of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor called the Orchids of Asia day spa a chance to have the charges dropped if they agreed to do 100 hours of community service, take a class on the dangers of prostitution, get tested for sexually transmitted diseases and pay a fine.The men would also have to agree that if the case had gone to trial, the prosecutors would have won. This would effectively force them to admit guilt even though they have pleaded not guilty to the charges.It is unclear how many of the defendants have agreed to the terms to settle their cases.The motion regarding the evidence in the case may be a way for Mr. Kraft and the other defendants to signal that they are unwilling to accept the current deal offered by the prosecutors to have the charges dropped.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Marc TracyINDIANAPOLIS — First it was Kyler Murray’s height. Then it was Kyler Murray’s weight. And then, after Kyler Murray’s weight, it was Kyler Murray’s hand size.By Friday, when Murray appeared before the news media, the chatter at the weeklong N.F.L. combine — an annual predraft meat market that makes little pretense of being anything subtler — had been dominated by discussions of his physical qualifications (or lack thereof). Does he, the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback for Oklahoma who is preparing for April’s draft, really have what is needed to succeed as a pro?Gil Brandt, the former Dallas Cowboys personnel chief, could not remember more buzz around a draft prospect.“This is the most in history,” Brandt said, “and I’ve been doing this since 1977.”A number of factors have contributed to the Kyler craze.Three months ago, he and Scott Boras, the most powerful of baseball agents, told anyone who asked that Murray planned to finish his sole season as the Sooners’ starting quarterback and then report to spring training with the Oakland Athletics, who picked him ninth over all in last year’s Major League Baseball draft and agreed to pay him a $4.66 million signing bonus.Instead, after acquitting himself admirably in a national playoff semifinal loss to Alabama, Murray announced that his focus would remain on football after all. He effectively spurned the A’s and their money in favor of pursuing his gridiron dreams, even though as quarterbacks go, he is, charitably speaking, not tall.Murray did not know what N.F.L. teams thought of him until he completed his productive 2018 season, he told several dozen journalists on Friday as they gathered in a corner of the mammoth Indianapolis Convention Center. “The N.F.L. kind of heated up,” he said, “and here we are.”Recently, there have been a couple of successful quarterbacks who stand south of six feet tall. But just how short (or tall) is Murray? Clearly the neutral arbiter that is the N.F.L. combine would figure this out. That is what happens here.And his hands: Are they big enough? Is his palm of requisite heft to support a regulation football, his fingers sufficiently long to curl around the ball’s pebbled leather? (As is often the case when the topic is men and sports, there is subtext, and size matters.)Murray was measured Thursday, and the white smoke from the sacred space soon emitted good news: He is small, but not too small.Height: 5 feet 10⅛ inches. (As they always say, football is a game of eighths of an inch.)Weight: 207 pounds. He was closer to 195 while playing for Oklahoma last season, he said.Hand size: nine and one-half inches, from the pinkie’s tip to the thumb’s. Which is, apparently, ordinary for a quarterback.“I showed up, they told me to put my hand down, told me to stand here, step on the scale, and that’s what I did,” Murray said Friday. “And everybody made a big deal about it.”In fairness, this is a big deal — as big in its way, you might say, as the 10.88-inch hands of Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott. In proving his physical adequacy, Murray held out the chance of becoming that most valuable of sports commodities, a franchise quarterback.And yet the prototypical quarterback is bigger than Murray, the better to see and throw over his hulking offensive linemen and the equally hulking linemen on the other team. At combines past, for example, Tom Brady was measured at 6-4, Cam Newton at 6-5, Patrick Mahomes at over 6-2.Drew Brees and Russell Wilson are two current franchise quarterbacks closer to Murray’s stature. Murray has talked with Wilson, another standout baseball player, a couple of times.“Good to have him in my corner,” Murray said. “Obviously, I look up to him.” (Literally. During his combine, Wilson was measured at 5-10⅝.)Also close to Murray and Wilson is Baker Mayfield, who was measured at 6-1 during last year’s combine. Murray backed up Mayfield at Oklahoma for the 2017 season, when Mayfield won the Heisman, after which the Cleveland Browns drafted him first over all.There is a tantalizing subplot to the question of whether Murray will follow Mayfield as the top pick. The Arizona Cardinals hold the No. 1 slot, but they selected a quarterback, Josh Rosen, early in the first round last year.However, they have since changed head coaches, and the new top man, Kliff Kingsbury, both played quarterback and coached in the Air Raid system — the offensive scheme in which Murray thrived at Oklahoma, and that Mahomes, a former Kingsbury protégé, proved transferable to the N.F.L. during his outstanding 2018 season with the Kansas City Chiefs.Has Murray met with the Cardinals? Yes, he said Friday, he has.Murray clarified a few other things as well, patiently addressing the scrum of reporters, his average-size hands at his sides.Yes, football is his final answer.“I was born a football player,” he said. “I love this game. There is no turning back.”No, he is not concerned that in choosing football over baseball, he doomed himself to a smaller paycheck. A reporter brought up the 13-year, $330 million contract that was reached on Thursday between the Philadelphia Phillies and Bryce Harper. How much is that per year, Murray wished to know. About $25.4 million.“There’s quarterbacks making more than him a year,” Murray said, and indeed there are.And, no, he does not fear that his choice will mean a greater likelihood of injury. “You can’t play this game scared,” he said.Teams that wish to evaluate him further will have to wait a little longer. The group of players with whom Murray has proceeded through the combine will do on-field drills Saturday at Lucas Oil Stadium, but Murray will not join them. Instead, he will throw and run for scouts on March 13 back on campus at Oklahoma.“The population of Norman will grow about 300 people,” Brandt said. “Every coach and general manager will be there.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson, Victor Mather and Patricia MazzeiWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Three weeks and a day after he watched his team win its sixth Super Bowl championship, Robert K. Kraft was formally charged with two counts of soliciting prostitution.Mr. Kraft, who lives in Massachusetts but has owned property in Palm Beach, Fla., for a number of years, was one of 25 men caught in a sting operation at a spa called Orchids of Asia, a small storefront business in a strip mall in Jupiter, Fla.On Friday, Jupiter police filed two second-degree charges against Mr. Kraft, but State Attorney Dave Aronberg of Palm Beach County increased the severity of the charges to two first-degree misdemeanors. If convicted, Mr. Kraft could face up to a year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service, Mr. Aronberg said. He added that it was unlikely a first-time offender would spend time in jail.“Human trafficking is evil in our midst,” Mr. Aronberg said. “It is fueled on the demand side.”The charges are the latest crisis for the Patriots and Mr. Kraft, who is one of the N.F.L.’s most powerful owners, a trustee emeritus and longtime benefactor of Columbia University and a friend of President Trump’s. Mr. Aronberg made it clear that Mr. Kraft would not receive special treatment because of his prominence.“Our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent,” Mr. Aronberg said. “No one gets special treatment in Palm Beach County.”The N.F.L., which will have to consider a punishment for Mr. Kraft, released a statement expressing the same sentiment Monday morning.“Our Personal Conduct Policy applies equally to everyone in the N.F.L.,” the unsigned league statement read. “We will handle this allegation in the same way we would handle any issue under the policy. We are seeking a full understanding of the facts, while ensuring that we do not interfere with an ongoing law enforcement investigation. We will take appropriate action as warranted based on the facts.”Through the Patriots, Mr. Kraft has denied engaging in illegal activity. A team spokesman said on Monday that the Patriots would not comment on the new charges.Mr. Aronberg said that because Mr. Kraft was considered a local resident, he had received a summons in the mail. He will not be booked into the local jail or appear in a mug shot. His lawyer can appear on his behalf in court.Details of the case against Mr. Kraft emerged Monday through an affidavit, which described his two visits to the spa that were caught on video.According to the affidavit, one of Mr. Kraft’s visits occurred in the late afternoon of Jan. 19, a Saturday. He arrived in a 2014 white, chauffeur-driven Bentley, and he was wearing a blue shirt and ball cap, the affidavit said. He spent about 40 minutes at the spa, during which time he undressed and lay on his back on a massage table as a woman massaged his genitals.As Mr. Kraft left the spa, the police followed the car, pulling it over in what was described as a traffic stop, and identified the owner of the Patriots.The next day, hours before the start of the A.F.C. championship game, Kraft arrived at the spa just before 11 a.m. He entered the room and hugged a masseuse. Once again, a woman was observed with her hands on his genitals, according to the affidavit, and then she was seen placing her head close to his pelvic area. The woman helped him get dressed. Mr. Kraft hugged her and gave her a $100 bill and another, unidentifiable form of currency. He was on his way 14 minutes after he arrived.Mr. Kraft later traveled to Kansas City, where he watched the Patriots defeat the Chiefs to earn their third consecutive trip to the Super Bowl.“This is not about lonely old men or victimless crime,” Mr. Aronberg said. “This is about enabling a network of criminals to traffic women into our country for forced labor and sex.”On Friday, the Jupiter police announced the charges, the result of an investigation into human trafficking that involved multiple agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security. None of the men charged in the sting have been accused of being involved with human trafficking.Mr. Kraft is a member of the league’s powerful broadcast committee, as well as the compensation committee, which sets Commissioner Roger Goodell’s salary. Mr. Goodell, who has striven to convince fans that the N.F.L. is a female-friendly organization after several high-profile incidents of domestic violence involving players, now could be in a position to fine or suspend Mr. Kraft for his conduct.The N.F.L. gives Mr. Goodell broad authority to hold players and owners accountable for conduct he deems detrimental to the league. Previous punishments have included fines and suspensions, but also prohibitions that have barred owners from being at their team facilities or from attending games.The N.F.L. maintains a “reserve/commissioner exempt list” for players who are being investigated by the league for conduct violations. This is the list that Kareem Hunt, the former Kansas City Chiefs running back, landed on after video emerged of him pushing and kicking a woman. (The Chiefs cut him shortly after the video became public and the league put Hunt on the exempt list; Hunt signed with the Cleveland Browns this month, though he has not yet been cleared to play.)Players on the exempt list cannot practice or attend games, but they continue to be paid. It is not clear whether Mr. Goodell would suspend an owner pending the outcome of an investigation.Mr. Goodell is hired and paid by the owners, making his decision on potential discipline for Mr. Kraft a tricky one.Mr. Kraft and Mr. Goodell had been considered longtime allies. Their relationship was strained, however, by two earlier punishments for the Patriots: when Mr. Goodell disciplined the franchise for spying on other teams in 2007, and when he penalized the team and quarterback Tom Brady in a case that began in 2015 about deflating footballs for a competitive advantage.The team came under larger scrutiny when one of its players, Aaron Hernandez, was charged with first-degree murder. He was convicted in 2015, and he killed himself in his cell in 2017.Ken Belson reported from West Palm Beach, Victor Mather from New York, and Patricia Mazzei from Jupiter, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. It is, of course, entirely possible that you won’t be watching the Super Bowl on Sunday night. Just 103 million people watched the Eagles beat the Patriots last year, after all — that’s fewer than one in three Americans, by rough count. I get it. You might prefer to watch “Aida” on demand, from the Metropolitan Opera in New York, or tie flies, or read “Adèle,” Leila Slimani’s first novel, about a sex addict in upper-middle-class Paris. Football’s not for everyone.But you should eat well while doing whatever you’re going to be doing this weekend, and the football playbook provides good eating whatever the entertainment you choose. I love this collection of our best Super Bowl recipes. I love Julia Moskin’s recipe for Texas-style chili, indeed all chilis, a dish that is as delicious an accompaniment to prose and music as it is to ritualized television violence. Also, this party board of roasted vegetables with aioli, and this tray of buttery French TV cookies, and this recipe for family-meal fish tacos.That’s for Sunday, though. On Saturday, I think you could do a couple of things. The first is to take a long spin through Julia’s latest treatise for better living through organization, “How to Stock a Modern Pantry.” Shop and store things in its wake and your cooking in coming weeks will be all the happier, all the more delicious, all the easier.The second is to set yourself up for a great recipe from Tejal Rao that is the subject of her “Eat” column in The Times this week: brie en croute (above), a wheel of supermarket Camembert, baked in puff pastry, a relic of 1970s dinner parties no longer, a reliable way to delight. Serve that as a salad before or after or during a dinner of deviled chicken thighs with green beans and shallots. Saturday night’s all right.And don’t stint on breakfasts, in this season of midwinter. It is breakfast and vitamin D that will get us through to spring. You could make Chinese-style breakfast egg wraps, or a Dutch baby, or roasted grapefruit, or avocado toast. Go light on lunch and then fire yourself up for those big dinners I suggest above.Close to 20,000 more recipes are awaiting your attention on NYT Cooking. (Stipulation: You will need to sign up for a subscription to access them. Worth it!) You can find us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter as well. That’s where we traffic in yet more recipes and digital hijinks.We’re here for you if you run into trouble with any of it along the way — with the cooking, the bureaucracy, the technology. Just ask for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. Or, if you’re mad about it, get in touch with me: foodeditor@nytimes.com. I can’t fix anything, really, but I can take a punch.Now, it’s a far cry from chia seeds and finely milled flour, but you should read Lily Burana on Longreads, on her youth as a peep-show girl in Times Square.Just as sadly, you should watch this video from The New Yorker, “Lifeboat,” about German volunteers in the Mediterranean, rescuing refugees from Libya.Finally, uplift. Here’s Biosis Now, “Independent Bahamas.” Have a fantastic weekend. See you on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Ken BelsonThe quarterback Colin Kaepernick ignited impassioned debates over race, activism and free expression after protesting police shootings of black men by kneeling during “The Star-Spangled Banner” at National Football League games in 2016.The president tweeted his anger at him and dozens of other players who also knelt in protest during the national anthem. Some fans boycotted games over the players’ actions, and some boycotted the N.F.L. with the belief that Mr. Kaepernick, who failed to land a job the next season, was being blacklisted for his leadership in the movement.Now, two and a half years later, Mr. Kaepernick and a former teammate, Eric Reid, have reached a surprise legal settlement with the N.F.L., which they had accused of colluding to keep them out of the league.In a terse joint statement issued on Friday afternoon, the league and the players’ lawyers said that “the parties have decided to resolve the pending grievances” and that “there will be no further comment.”A confidentiality agreement means that, for all the debate and discussion the case generated, it ended with a silence that left hanging whether the league admitted there was any collusion and whether Mr. Kaepernick would ever play another down.Yet there most likely will be further discussion, as people debate whether Mr. Kaepernick was right and what enduring lesson the owners and league might draw from the saga.“The most important thing is he started a really important conversation that we’ve been having for a couple of years, and the people who were willing to have that conversation have learned some things,” said Michael MacCambridge, the author of “America’s Game: The Epic Story of How Pro Football Captured a Nation.”He added: “I suspect even if Kaepernick knew how long it would take he might have done it differently. But he took a social stand and he was willing to suffer the consequences of that.”Mr. Kaepernick, 31, who played for the San Francisco 49ers and took them to the Super Bowl after the 2012 season, has not played in the N.F.L. since the 2016 season, when he began the kneeling campaign. (At first he sat during the anthem, but a former player who is a military veteran suggested he kneel instead to make his point while respecting the American flag.)He filed a grievance under the league’s collective bargaining agreement in October 2017, months after failing to find a job, and his lawyers have been busy gathering evidence and testimony from numerous N.F.L. owners and league executives.The case seemed headed to a ruling this spring by an arbitrator, until the abrupt statement on Friday that left the sports world guessing on whether the league paid the players and how much.After protesting while playing for the 49ers, Mr. Reid, 27, also went unsigned for a period before playing most of last season for the Carolina Panthers. This week he signed a three-year contract with the team.It is unclear whether Kaepernick will continue trying to play professional football again.The settlement of their case was another unpredictable twist in a saga that began in August 2016 when Mr. Kaepernick, an African-American little known as an activist, began his protests during the anthem. He said the gesture was meant to draw attention to racism and police brutality against people of color.Several players across the league joined him in kneeling during the anthem, generating a national discussion over it and leaving the league flummoxed over how to respond. Last year the N.F.L. instituted a policy that said players could remain in the locker room during the playing of the national anthem, but that if they were on the field they would have to stand.But that policy was suspended after the N.F.L. Players Association filed a grievance, and it was never enforced.The sideline protest movement seemed to lose momentum, and few players knelt during this past season. Mr. Kaepernick has said little, reserving most of his comments for his social media accounts. During the Super Bowl this month he posted on his Instagram account pictures of athletes and celebrities wearing jerseys supporting his cause.On Friday, he only retweeted a statement from his lawyer, Mark Geragos.Mr. Kaepernick emerged from the protests as both a polarizing figure and a cultural symbol. Last year, Nike signed him to a lucrative endorsement deal even though he remained out of the league and largely silent, not typically what a brand wants from an endorser.A year before, Nike executives had decided to end their contract with Mr. Kaepernick, before being talked out of it. But with Mr. Kaepernick’s growing stature in the civil rights movement, the apparel company decided to make him a face of its “Just Do It” campaign, debuting a commercial narrated by Mr. Kaepernick during the opening game of the N.F.L. season.Legal experts have said collusion cases are notoriously difficult to prove, which makes it highly unusual for the league to settle a case like this. It is possible Mr. Kaepernick’s lawyers had gathered enough persuasive evidence and testimony from owners, league officials and football experts that Mr. Kaepernick stood a reasonable chance of persuading the arbitrator hearing the case to rule in his favor.Frank Hawkins, a former senior vice president of the N.F.L., said he thought the league was probably more worried about embarrassing statements from owners getting out through a hearing than about losing the case.“People say stupid things, things get taken out of context,” he said. “So I think there was a reasonable potential for embarrassment and it is something that if they could settle it at a reasonable cost, they would probably just think it was worth paying nuisance value.”Had Mr. Kaepernick won his case in a full hearing, he would have been eligible to receive the money he might have earned if he were signed as a free agent. In addition, he may have received double that amount in punitive damages. In his final year with the 49ers, Mr. Kaepernick earned more than $14 million.Carl Tobias, an expert on civil litigation who teaches at the University of Richmond School of Law, said that parties settle for all sorts of reasons, even when they believe they may prevail in court. But the N.F.L., he said, most likely wanted to move on from the issue rather than risk an adverse ruling that could, among other things, taint negotiations over the league’s collective bargaining agreement, which will expire in two seasons.“I think the N.F.L. just wanted to get this behind them and not have this threat hanging over them,” Mr. Tobias said. “I think they’d pay whatever they’d get away with to stop the hemorrhaging and the negative light on the league.”According to the collective bargaining agreement between the league and the union, the burden is on the player to prove that owners actively conspired against him.“That is often difficult to do because parties typically don’t leave a written record of their illegal maneuvering,” said William Gould, who was chairman of the National Labor Relations Board at the time of the Major League Baseball strike in 1994.Mr. Kaepernick, however, received a favorable ruling in August when the arbitrator overseeing the case, Stephen B. Burbank, dismissed the league’s attempt to have the case thrown out, allowing lawyers for Mr. Kaepernick to question owners and league officials in a format similar to a trial.It was anticipated that Mr. Burbank would rule on the case in the coming months, and as of last week lawyers for Mr. Kaepernick were still preparing for final hearings in front of Mr. Burbank, according to a person with knowledge of the preparations.Even though Mr. Kaepernick has not played in more than two years, and his play had grown erratic in his last months on the field, his name had continued to surface every time an N.F.L. team signed a new quarterback. Many of these quarterbacks had less experience or statistically did not seem to measure up to him.Mr. Kaepernick’s name also continued to be invoked at major N.F.L. events, including the Super Bowl this month, when musicians said they would not perform during halftime out of sympathy for his case.The Associated Press reported this week that a new league, the Alliance of American Football, spoke with Mr. Kaepernick but that he wanted at least $20 million to consider playing in it.Mr. Kaepernick’s collusion case at times also exposed a bit of a rift between himself and the players’ union. Mr. Kaepernick hired his own lawyers for the case instead of going through the union, and the union’s statement on the resolution said it was informed of the settlement by the N.F.L. and was unaware of the terms.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The Saints’ locker room at the Superdome was consumed by silence. Players dressed quickly before departing. A mountain of shoulder pads formed at the center of the room, next to a couple of yellow duffel bags labeled “PLAYOFFS.” Defensive tackle David Onyemata pulled on black jeans with designer rips that revealed skinned knees.When running back Mark Ingram was asked for his reaction to the moment that had freshly defined the N.F.C. championship on Sunday afternoon, he stared at the floor in front of him and shook his head. When he finally spoke, it came out a whisper.“I can’t say any words,” he said.The topic of the day, and one that will probably linger like a noxious cloud over football-crazed New Orleans for years, was a noncall that had helped the Los Angeles Rams secure their Super Bowl berth with a 26-23 overtime victory over the Saints. On a cold day outside, the crowd left the building bubbling with rage. Most of the players tried to exercise at least some restraint.“Nothing you can do about it now,” wide receiver Tommylee Lewis said.The play in question happened late in the fourth quarter of a tie game. On third-and-10 at the Rams’ 13, Saints quarterback Drew Brees lofted a pass toward Lewis, who had run a wheel route out of the backfield toward the right sideline. But well before the ball arrived, Lewis was clobbered by cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman, who had his back to Brees and to the airborne ball — and later acknowledged that, yes, he had probably committed a pass-interference penalty.“I just know I got there before the ball got there, and I whacked his ass,” Robey-Coleman said.The only problem: The official closest to the play did not penalize Robey-Coleman for pass interference. It came as a shock to just about everyone, including Robey-Coleman, who recalled hearing the official yell, “Incomplete!” Per league rules, judgment calls like pass interference are not subject to video review.“I got up and I looked around, and no laundry,” Robey-Coleman said, referring to the absence of a yellow penalty flag.Had the official thrown one, the Saints would have been awarded a first down, allowing them to run down the clock before attempting a winning field goal (or even scoring a touchdown). The Rams probably never would have gotten the ball back.Instead, the Saints had to kick a field goal on fourth down that put them ahead by 23-20 with 1 minute 41 seconds to play in regulation. It turned out to be more than enough time for the Rams to march down the field and make a 48-yard field goal that sent the game to overtime. Los Angeles eventually won the game on a 57-yard field goal by Greg Zuerlein.In his postgame news conference, Saints Coach Sean Payton said he had spoken by phone immediately after the game with Alberto Riveron, the N.F.L.’s senior vice president for officiating, and the league office.“The first thing Al said when I got on the phone: ‘We messed it up,’” Payton said, adding: “It was simple: They blew the call. It should never have not been a call. They said, ‘Not only was it interference, it was helmet to helmet.’ Two calls.”It was the second straight season that a Saints playoff run ended in heartbreak. Last season, it was a divisional-round loss to the Minnesota Vikings on a 61-yard touchdown reception as time expired — a fluke play that seemed impossible to replicate in terms of soul-crushing consequences.But then, there was Sunday afternoon.“That’s tough to swallow,” Brees said. “I think there were plenty of times throughout the season where there’s calls that go against you, go for you, or they miss, or they didn’t. Obviously, in a situation like that where it seemed like everybody in the world saw it, it’s tough.”Tough, too, because of the Saints’ realistic Super Bowl aspirations. They finished the regular season tied for the best record in the N.F.C., and the Rams were coming to their building, where the crowd tends to be inhospitable to opponents at best — and downright ruthless at worst. The noise was so bad for the Rams on Sunday that quarterback Jared Goff had to put tape over the ear holes of his helmet so he could hear the audio coming from his coach.Payton, though, has had a contentious relationship with the league, and an errant call — which the N.F.L. admitted making — in such a crucial moment seems sure to add to an already robust sense of injustice in New Orleans.Much of that agita stems from the so-called Bountygate scandal, in which the Saints coaching staff was found to have rewarded players who injured opponents. As a part of the fallout, Payton was barred by the league from coaching during the 2012 season, and some of the scars are still evident, all these years later.On Sunday, defensive end Cameron Jordan suggested that the referees were biased against the Saints.“We know for a long time that we don’t get calls that way,” Jordan said, adding: “As far as I’ve known, we haven’t had referees that go gung-ho for the Saints. We’ve got to put ourselves in the best position so we’re not able to be touched.“Will it haunt that ref? Who cares. Will it haunt this team? This will be something that will be another defining moment for us.”As for Robey-Coleman, the Rams cornerback who made the hit, he appeared to sense his place in football lore almost immediately.“They’re going to show that forever,” he said, referring to the clip of the play. “They’re going to show that forever. New Orleans is going to hate me.”He did not sound very sad about it.Ben Shpigel contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinQuarterback Johnny Manziel’s brief foray into the Canadian Football League ended abruptly on Wednesday when the league instructed the Montreal Alouettes to terminate Manziel’s contract for an undisclosed violation of terms and then barred any of the league’s other teams from signing the former Heisman Trophy winner.The Alouettes released a statement explaining that it was following orders from the C.F.L. to cut Manziel, 26, “after it was found that he had contravened the agreement which made him eligible to play in the league.”🚨BREAKING NEWS🚨The @MTLAlouettes have released QB Johnny Manziel.FOR MORE | https://t.co/IbobgzO908 pic.twitter.com/mzVY5dn4BK“We are disappointed by this turn of events,” the Alouettes’ general manager, Kavis Reed, said in a statement. “Johnny was provided a great deal of support by our organization, in collaboration with the C.F.L., but he has been unable to abide by the terms of his agreement. We worked with the league and presented alternatives to Johnny, who was unwilling to proceed.”Reed told reporters in Montreal that the Alouettes had cut Manziel only because of the C.F.L. order.“No sir,” Reed said. “Mr. Manziel’s performance on the field showed that he had a very good upside. But Mr. Manziel violated the terms, and we all understood those terms and we have to be compliant with them.”Before he entered into negotiations with the Hamilton Tiger Cats last March, Manziel had to agree to several strict provisions in his contract, presumably because he had a history of substance abuse and arrests, including one related to accusations that he had struck a former girlfriend. But the specifics terms of the deal were not disclosed, and the league refused to make them public on Wednesday.“Mr. Manziel has been informed he must continue to meet a number of conditions in order to remain eligible,” the C.F.L. said in a statement last year. “These conditions, while extensive and exacting, remain confidential.”Manziel won the Heisman Trophy in 2012 after a dazzling season for Texas A&M. He was drafted by the Cleveland Browns with the 22nd overall pick in 2014 and started just eight games in two years with them. He was released in March 2016, after revelations of charges that he had struck and threatened the former girlfriend. Manziel and prosecutors came to a dismissal agreement, and he was required to seek counseling.Manziel wrote on his Twitter account that he hoped to play in the United States again. That could mean in one of two new development leagues. The Alliance of American Football began play this month. Another league, a revival of the XFL, is scheduled to begin play next February.“I look forward to exploring new options within the United States,” Manziel wrote.FREE AGENCY FOR FOLES Nick Foles rejuvenated his career in Philadelphia. Now he wants to turn his success into an N.F.L. starting job — and the Eagles intend to give him that chance.General Manager Howie Roseman told reporters on Wednesday that the team would not use the franchise tag on Foles, making him a free agent.Foles led the Eagles into the playoffs the last two seasons after their starting quarterback, Carson Wentz, was injured, and he was named the most valuable player of the Super Bowl last year when the Eagles won the title. But the Eagles were clear that Wentz, the No. 2 overall draft pick in 2016, was their established starter.“It’s hard when you have someone who is incredibly valuable to your organization, the most important position in sports,” Roseman said during the N.F.L.’s annual scouting combine in Indianapolis. “But at the same time, he deserves an opportunity to lead a team.” (AP)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders offer their ideas, which include mentions of Ann Coulter, Charlie Brown and a fence-renting company.To the Editor:Re “President Offers Deal on ‘Dreamers’ to Secure a Wall” (front page, Jan. 20) and “Senate Will Hold Competing Votes to End Shutdown” (front page, Jan. 23):President Trump and congressional Democrats appear to be locked in a political game of chicken, with federal government workers, government contractors and the public trapped in the middle. Mr. Trump’s offer of temporary protections for the Dreamers in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall was quickly rejected by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Two measures ending the shutdown that will be before the Senate on Thursday are not expected to pass.The current situation is untenable. The burden on federal workers is onerous and unfair. Creative solutions are needed to end this impasse. I offer two.First, a proven mediator, such as former Senator George Mitchell, could be appointed in an attempt to bring the parties to an agreement. Second, a bipartisan blue ribbon commission — composed of experts from government, business and academia — could be created to offer recommendations on how best to address our border issues, including people and drugs coming into our country.Time is of the essence. A deal must be struck soon to avoid irreparable harm to the federal government.Todd J. SchwartzWall, N.J. To the Editor:The Democrats should seize on this chance to end the shutdown. There’s no downside for them. It is not a question of bargaining anymore but of the suffering of the country. But even so, it’s a good deal. The Dreamers will get something they would otherwise have not gotten. And President Trump has learned his lesson.His approval ratings have gone down. His base is unhappy. There will be no more Trump shutdowns. And Democrats will avoid the risk of a shift in blame to them for their intransigence. And, the clincher: Ann Coulter doesn’t like it.Howard RachlinNew YorkTo the Editor:How about this? Democrats put forward a bill in the House for border security of $12 billion. This would be for more border patrol officers, upgraded equipment, improved facilities, etc., but not a wall.This would allow Democrats to show that they are tough on border security by more than doubling President Trump’s proposed funding. The bill must focus purely on border security — no other Democratic wish list items or conditions.Would Republican members of Congress and the president bite? Perhaps they’d see it as face-saving. Conversely, to reject it would be seen as obstructionist, risking voter wrath at the next election.Jim SpanierHoustonTo the Editor:Set a date for all federal employees to picket in front of President Trump’s hotels. Nothing gets his attention like money.Barbara LloydStratford, Conn.To the Editor:For all of his manifold and well-documented deficiencies, President Trump is not nearly as naïve as Charlie Brown. If Mr. Trump buys into Nancy Pelosi’s assurances that border security, including a wall or other physical barrier, can be discussed once the government is reopened, he is no smarter than Charlie thinking that this time Lucy will not snatch the football away just as he is about to kick it.David MacNeilChatham, N.J. To the Editor:There was fencing around a construction site here in Queens that my wife and I passed this morning, and on it was a sign that read: National Rent A Fence. Seeing it, my wife laughed and said, “Maybe Trump should try that.”James J. RushBayside, QueensAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bynews analysisA terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can be shared on a thumb drive. But stolen secrets come with complications.By Scott ShaneMr. Shane is a national security reporter for The Times.On the very day that Roger Stone was charged with lying about a momentous set of leaks that originated with Russian hackers, a feisty band of transparency activists led by a Boston woman posted a voluminous collection of leaks from inside Russia.It was less a coincidence than a trend, a consequence of technology and a defining feature of our time. We live in an age of leaks, for better or worse.The better part is easy: We get access to information powerful people and institutions want to keep secret. The worse part is more complicated, and requires more thoughtful consideration than it gets: Leaks often violate laws against hacking or theft and invade people’s privacy, not always with any higher purpose. They can be powerful, unpredictable, unfair weapons. They can allow one country to meddle, from a safe distance, in the affairs of another.To wit: The Democratic Party emails and documents, hacked by Russian intelligence and broadcast by WikiLeaks with the veteran political trickster Mr. Stone as cheerleader, may have allowed a foreign power to help elect an American president in 2016. Yet the new, sprawling archive of Russian leaks, ranging from government ties to the Russian Orthodox Church to the Kremlin’s management of its invasion of Ukraine, showed that the Russian state is a target of leaks these days as often as it is a leaker.Mass leaks, on a scale inconceivable back in the paper-only era, have become so routine globally that only the most extraordinary get extended attention. In South Africa, a Commission of Inquiry Into State Capture is fueled by “Gupta Leaks,” leaked emails detailing corrupt ties between government officials and the Gupta family’s business empire. In Hungary, a Portuguese man was just arrested and admitted to playing a central role in “Football Leaks,” which exposed unsavory financial dealings in international soccer. In Singapore, an American and his Singaporean physician boyfriend were accused of leaking the names of more than 14,000 people with an H.I.V. diagnosis.Leaks, an ancient metaphor, are a venerable human institution. “A talebearer revealeth secrets,” says Proverbs in an early complaint, “but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.” Thomas Paine, the revolutionary pamphleteer, has been described as the first American to be fired for leaking classified information — in 1779.But only in recent years have leaks attained industrial scale. A terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can now be slipped into your pocket on a thumb drive and carried off with your keys and chewing gum. If information is power, that is a lot of power in a small package. It is being wielded daily for many purposes.The same technological change has made information vulnerable to hacking, which means that insiders are no longer the only people capable of leaking it. On a regular basis, companies announce cyberthefts of customer data, causing bureaucratic hassles for millions of people. At the other end of the scale, leaks occasionally target individuals for embarrassment or extortion.But the most consequential leaks — many of them more like floods — are those that wield political power. The diplomatic cables Chelsea Manning gave to WikiLeaks in 2010 shed light on the hidden world of diplomacy. Edward Snowden’s National Security Agency documents, shared with journalists in 2013, prompted the White House, and then Congress, to set new limits on the surveillance of Americans. The Panama Papers, leaked to a German newspaper in 2015, prompted investigations of tax evasion and money laundering around the world.On balance, those gargantuan disclosures seem largely beneficial — even if not all diplomats, intelligence officers and tax lawyers would join the applause. But the big leaks of the current era are not all about war and peace, government oversight or financial equity. For journalists, the catnip appeal of scoops can overwhelm careful judgment about the value of the disclosures and problematic questions about sources.What about the Sony Pictures leaks — an act of vengeance by the North Korean leader for an insulting movie — which exposed mostly gossip, business secrets and employee Social Security numbers? What of the leaks of personal information from AshleyMadison.com, which helps facilitate extramarital affairs?What, for that matter, about the 20,000 Democratic National Committee emails and 20,000 more pages of emails to and from John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, that Mr. Stone is accused of lying about? That breach, weaponized by Russia in the midst of a presidential contest, illustrates well the ambiguous nature of such intrusions.The leaks were, after all, not disinformation, even if they were obtained by criminal means. The emails were real, which was why they drew so much media attention. “Four of the Juiciest Leaked Podesta Emails,” USA Today trumpeted a month before the 2016 election. The New York Times was only a little more demure: “Highlights From the Clinton Campaign Emails.”The leaks gave Mrs. Clinton cause to regret that she had not released the speeches she had delivered to private companies, which were now made public under the worst possible circumstances. It was agony for top Democrats whose private, sometimes snarky comments were aired.For Donald Trump and his supporters, including his old friend Mr. Stone, the emails were a campaign boon, a justified public airing of hidden Clinton truths. For future political historians, they may offer a few meaningful tidbits of insight into the Clinton campaign.Yet the leaks cannot be separated from those who made them happen: A foreign intelligence service intervened with significant impact on behalf of one side in an American election. Imagine that Russian officials had ignored Mrs. Clinton and instead hacked and published documents exposing Mr. Trump’s epic tax dodges and secret payments to paramours. Even die-hard Trump partisans might recognize that the race could have come out the other way.A different thought experiment, however, may be more timely. How would the leaks of Democratic emails be viewed had the data been hacked or leaked by a disgruntled American — a false story that Russia and Trump supporters pushed in 2016 — with no taint of foreign meddling? More Americans might accept the leaks as regrettable but inevitable political roughhousing. Such a scenario may be worth pondering. American political operatives, we recently learned, have begun to imitate Russia’s 2016 operations on social media, with two experiments in the 2017 Alabama Senate election.So it is almost certainly only a matter of time before Americans try out the hack-and-leak technique as well, as any student of old-school campaign dirty tricks can tell you. Just ask Roger Stone, who wrote in his book “Stone’s Rules”: “To win you must do everything.”Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College FootballBy Marc TracyPASADENA, Calif. — Last month, the Big Ten’s influential commissioner, Jim Delany, endorsed discussions to expand the College Football Playoff, just five seasons into the format’s 12-year contract.Expanding the four-team playoff to six or eight teams is likely to be a hot topic at the meetings many conferences will hold Monday, before that evening’s national championship game between Alabama and Clemson in Santa Clara, Calif.“It’s probably a good idea, given all the discussions and noise around the issue, to have conversations with our colleagues,” Delany told The Athletic.Delany might have ulterior motives — the Big Ten has now gone two seasons without getting a team into the playoff. But John Swofford, the Atlantic Coast Conference commissioner, echoed Delany last week in Arlington, Tex., before Clemson played in its fourth straight national semifinal.“What I see is a willingness to evaluate, take a look and gauge what a bigger field would mean,” Swofford said. “What are the implications? And are there ways to make something that I think is outstanding at the moment even better?”Then there are those who say there are only ways to make a good thing worse.On New Year’s Day, Kris Mapes, who won a free trip to the Rose Bowl from a raffle at a sports bar in Columbus, Ohio, lauded the purity of this year’s contest while tailgating in the parking lot. With Ohio State playing Washington, the game featured the Big Ten champion versus the Pacific-12 champion — just like in the old days, when, for more than 50 years, beginning in 1947, that matchup was a given.“With the playoff, there’s always an argument,” Mapes said, referring to the gripes of some teams left out of the four-team College Football Playoff. “When you go Big Ten versus Pac-12 champs, there’s no argument. You’re the winner of the Rose Bowl.”It was the traditionalist’s response to a question increasingly being given the nontraditional answer. It’s also probably the only easy answer to a complex question.The most popular proposed reform to the playoff is to expand it further, making the bracket bigger at the expense of traditions like a classic Rose Bowl.The Rose Bowl is at the center of the playoff debate because of its importance to the Big Ten and the Pac-12, and because it is the oldest and most famous bowl game. That has historically made it the biggest stumbling block to altering the postseason: first with the creation of the Bowl Championship Series for the 1998 season; then, later, with the larger playoff that began with the 2014 season.“In order to make any type of agreement that led to the B.C.S., you had to have the Rose Bowl be a part of it,” said Roy F. Kramer, the former Southeastern Conference commissioner who helped start the B.C.S., from his home in Tennessee.Under the current playoff system, the Rose Bowl hosts a national semifinal game every three years, with teams selected by a committee with no regard for conference affiliation. In the other two years, like this one, the Rose Bowl matches a Big Ten team with a Pac-12 team, but it must release those conferences’ champions should they qualify for the playoff. Two years ago, for instance, the Pac-12 champion was placed in a semifinal, so the Rose Bowl featured the conference’s runner-up, Southern California.During halftime of Tuesday’s Rose Bowl game, Pac-12 Commissioner Larry Scott reiterated his support for the status quo, saying the playoff “works very well for us.”“Washington had 27,000 tickets to sell. They sold all of them,” Scott said. “They’d never come anywhere close at the Fiesta Bowl, which they were in last year, or the semifinal game two years ago. The fans don’t respond to the semifinal, to the Fiesta Bowl, the same way they do to the Rose Bowl.”Whether that is gospel or merely a negotiating position remains to be seen. The powers behind the Rose Bowl have bent before and may again.Scott Jenkins, chairman of the Rose Bowl Management Committee, wore a red blazer as he described the game’s appeal during the second quarter. “Especially if you’re back in the Midwest,” he said, “where it’s probably cold, maybe there’s snow on the ground — it’s New Year’s, you see on television the sun and the mountains and everybody smiling and happy, and bright colors on the field — real grass.”Jenkins pledged that the Rose Bowl would continue to insist on certain particulars, saying, “If you’re looking at red lines in the sand: Pasadena. Jan. 1. Two o’clock.”He could have pointed to this season’s television viewership, which was essentially identical to the national semifinal at the Cotton Bowl, according to ESPN.Yet with the power of college football settled firmly in the South, it is difficult to see an expanded playoff accommodating all of Jenkins’s demands, and nearly impossible to envision one that has room for a Rose Bowl that pits the Big Ten and Pac-12 champions against each other.The most commonly suggested eight-team system would replace conference championship games with the national quarterfinals, while giving automatic bids to major conference champions — making traditions like a “true” Rose Bowl exceedingly rare.To many casual fans, who tune into broadcasts of differently colored teams on similarly shaded fields that may as well be in Topeka or Tokyo, turning the Rose Bowl into just another playoff game — or into even more of what they might already consider an exhibition game — would not matter much. For them, expansion will simply more than double the number of playoff games.That makes expansion advocates on the inside of college football see dollar signs. It also raises the hopes of some unknown number of casual fans that their team can someday sneak into an eight-team tournament, generating unparalleled excitement and entertainment through December.But Kramer, who as much as any individual is responsible for the advent of a unified postseason, suggested caution.Expansion, he said, “would be a mistake.” For one, it would devalue the regular season, he argued.For another, it would threaten the importance of the bowls, which, however meaningless they may be in terms of championships, still hold value for participants and their fans.“I’ve been to a lot of bowl games,” Kramer said, “and I never saw a team that was disappointed by going to a bowl game.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonOn Nov. 23, 2014, in a nationally televised Sunday night game against the Dallas Cowboys, Odell Beckham Jr., then a Giants rookie, leapt high in the end zone, twisted as he arched backward, fought off a defender and made a fingertip, one-handed touchdown grab that seemed unfathomable even in slow motion replay.The next day, Beckham’s acrobatics had physicists, mechanical engineers and sports scientists scratching their heads.“It was a bit like Spider-Man,” said Jim Gates, a professor of physics at the University of Maryland. “A near superhuman activity.”In that moment — in just the seventh game of a nascent pro career — Beckham’s place in N.F.L. lore was cemented.Within months, he had won the league’s Offensive Rookie of the Year award, played in the Pro Bowl and became the youngest player ever to grace the cover of the omnipresent Madden N.F.L. video game. Beckham’s No. 13 jersey quickly became the hottest-selling football apparel nationwide. He was the new face of the storied Giants franchise.It is hard to believe that a little more than four years later, Beckham has been brusquely jettisoned from the team. On Tuesday, the popular, if sometimes mercurial, Beckham was traded to the Cleveland Browns for Jabrill Peppers, a safety with a modest record of N.F.L. achievement, and two draft picks (the 17th and 95th of next month’s draft) that, while valuable, are not likely to yield a star of Beckham’s magnitude.Beckham’s mystifying departure may be a window into a new N.F.L., in which players and teams can transition from seemingly amicable partners — Beckham signed a five-year, $90 million  contract extension with the Giants about six months ago — to rivals on opposing sidelines faster than ever before.Star players were once bound to teams for many years because restrictive guidelines made unfettered free agency hard to achieve. There is more movement in the modern N.F.L., and even Beckham’s contract, which at the time made him the highest-paid wide receiver in football, did not mean that the Giants wanted him around for long. Still, Beckham’s trade did not happen in a vacuum. In the last week, Antonio Brown and Le’Veon Bell, whose offensive production in Pittsburgh made them prospective Hall of Fame players, moved on from the Steelers.Beckham, 26, surely played a role in his exit. He embarrassed himself and the team with his mano-a-mano slugfest with Josh Norman, which contributed to a 2015 Giants loss. His end zone celebrations could be profane, and his antics on the sideline self-aggrandizing. As the leader of an ill-advised, overnight Florida boating trip when the team was preparing for a rare playoff game — followed by an inferior performance in a loss at Green Bay — he continued to demonstrate a level of immaturity.A television interview last fall in which Beckham did not show support for quarterback Eli Manning and seemed to question his teammates’ effort produced more hand-wringing in the Giants offices at the highest levels, including ownership. A portion of the Giants fandom also began to sour on Beckham because of his volatility.In today’s N.F.L., some teams choose to abandon their hefty investments in players who are distractions rather than wait for those players to become such problems that they must be moved. Or team executives ditch the player before he tries to force a trade, as Brown did, and in that way maintain their trading leverage.The real surprise in the Beckham case is that it was the staid Giants who chose to push their most talented and popular player out the door — and to do it in his prime. The Giants are historically much more conscious and concerned about fan reaction to their transactions. But not in this situation. Beckham was dispensable, even if it meant that the tens of thousands of Giants fans with one of Beckham’s replica jerseys hanging in a closet — many of them prized fans under the age of 35 — were thunderstruck by Tuesday’s deal.The Giants fan base is already reeling, and not just because its team has had one winning season since 2012. Beckham’s trade is just one of several recent purges of the team’s roster that have left many fans confounded and angry. There are, for example, only three players remaining from the team’s Week 1 starting lineup in 2016.Moreover, if there is a clear path that the Giants are following, indeed if there is a plan at all, it’s not easily deciphered.Yes, the Giants are in a rebuilding mode. But they will have to rebuild with financial constraints. About $16 million of Beckham’s salary will count against the Giants’ 2019 cap, and more startling, that’s less than half of the $32.5 million on this year’s salary cap ledger for players who are not here anymore: The Giants also recently traded or cut players like cornerback Eli Apple, defensive end Olivier Vernon, defensive tackle Damon Harrison and offensive lineman Patrick Omameh.And Manning is due about $23 million next season. That total could be reduced if Manning is cut in a few days, before his bonus is due. If that happens, it may provide some clarity on the front office’s apparent overall strategy of tearing down everything to start over. But losing Manning on top of Beckham may leave some Giants loyalists apoplectic. If not catatonic.In the end, Beckham’s exit underscores another relevant pattern: Every Giants first-round draft choice from 2013 to 2016 has either been traded or released by the team. Of the 70 players the Giants selected from 2008 to 2017, only six remain.More than any other factor, that is why the Giants have lost 24 of their last 32 games and have not won a playoff game in seven years. With his magical pass-catching skills, Beckham was once seen as a Giants savior. The team and its fans now have to find a new one.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Rod NordlandKABUL, Afghanistan — He was their nightmare, the young, female Afghan soccer players say: a menacing 57-year-old with two wives who locked the door to his back office with a biometric keypad that only he could open.Many of those young soccer players, members of the women’s national team, lined up to accuse the man, the president of Afghan soccer, Keramuddin Keram, of sexually assaulting them in a bed he kept in that room, and elsewhere, charges they made both in public statements and to Afghan prosecutors. Women who rebuffed his advances were labeled lesbians and expelled from the team, according to eight former players who said that had happened to them.Three months later, however, the investigation into sexual abuse in Afghan soccer is stalled, amid fears it will never proceed. It has yet to result in any criminal charges.One of Mr. Keram’s accusers, the soccer player Khalida Popal, said he had actively pursued women who testified against him in Afghanistan, warning them to withdraw the charges. And witnesses like her who live in exile have not been interviewed in person by Afghan investigators, as required by law, because so far the investigators have not been able to get visas.Mr. Keram remains the president of the Afghanistan Football Federation, which is in charge of men’s and women’s soccer, the country’s most popular sport, although he is suspended by order of the attorney general. And FIFA, the governing body for world soccer, has just extended Mr. Keram’s ban from participating in national and international soccer for three more months, as its own investigation, nearly a year old, grinds on.Neither FIFA nor Mr. Keram responded to requests for comment.Despite public support from President Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan investigation has run into a powerful lobby made up of supporters of Mr. Keram from Panjshir, a politically dominant province in northern Afghanistan. Once a local warlord and later governor of the province, Mr. Keram remains well connected with the Jamiat-i-Islami party, the major political force in the north.Prosecutors have the power to arrest Mr. Keram but have not done so, though they have blocked him from leaving the country. “If the investigative committee thinks they need to arrest him, they will do so,” said Jamshid Rasooli, the attorney general’s spokesman.Mr. Rasooli confirmed a report by ToloNews, an Afghan television news program, that two of the attorney general’s investigators had not yet obtained visas to interview witnesses in Europe, which has led to speculation that the visas were denied for fear that the investigators would claim asylum themselves. He said they had been waiting for the visas for more than a month.Ms. Popal, 31, reached by telephone in Denmark, said she had heard from at least three soccer players in the past two months who withdrew their charges against Mr. Keram after they received direct, personal threats from him.Two of the women answered calls from someone they knew, who then handed the phone to Mr. Keram. In the third case, the woman was walking to soccer practice in Kabul near the football federation offices when she was forced into a car with blacked-out windows, finding Mr. Keram inside, Ms. Popal was told.“He told them, ‘I know you have been to the attorney general’s office and given testimony against us,’ ” Ms. Popal said. “ ‘Go and take back the testimony. You know I am a powerful person. Nobody will put me in jail. I will win this case. It’ll take some time, but then what will happen to you? Think about your future and what will happen to you and your family.’ ”Ms. Popal said the three women, whom she declined to identify for their safety, had gone into hiding and were no longer willing to testify against Mr. Keram.Mr. Keram did not respond to repeated efforts to contact him for comment. A spokesman for the Afghan federation, Shafi Shadab, who had earlier spoken on behalf of Mr. Keram, said Saturday that the attorney general had ordered him to have no further contact with the soccer chief. The federation’s Facebook page has posted a statement denying all of the charges.Ms. Popal was one of the founders of women’s soccer in Afghanistan and remained active with the team after fleeing to Denmark, where she claimed asylum in 2011. She accused Mr. Keram of the rape and sexual assault of other players and claimed to have evidence that she had reported those claims to the federation early last year with no response.“The president of A.F.F. and some trainers are raping and sexually harassing female players,” she said in a December interview. She earlier made similar claims in an interview with The Guardian.In addition to Mr. Keram, four other members of the federation were suspended and banned from travel. The ban on one of them, the federation’s deputy president, Yosuf Kargar, was lifted in January after the attorney general’s office said it had found no evidence against him.Mr. Keram appealed his suspension by FIFA but was denied.Earlier, the sponsor of the Afghan national women’s team, the Danish sportswear manufacturer Hummel, withdrew its financial support over what it called “strong allegations of severe mental, physical, sexual and equal rights abuse of the female players by male A.F.F. officials.”Last month, Kelly Lindsey, the American coach of the Afghan women’s team, urged FIFA to step in and take more concrete action. It could, for instance, ban the Afghan teams from competition.“I think FIFA really needs to stand up here. They are the governing body of football and if they allow this to happen in their culture, then it’s easy for it to be pushed under the rug,” she said in an interview with Reuters.FIFA has defended its actions, noting that it suspended Mr. Keram and is investigating the allegations. It added that it had “zero tolerance” for sexual abuse. Last week, FIFA said the head of its investigation had requested that Mr. Keram’s ban be extended for 90 days, and that the organization had agreed.“During this time, Mr. Karim will continue to be banned from all football-related activities at both national and international level,” it said, using an alternative transliteration of Mr. Keram’s name.Human Rights Watch weighed in last month, urging both FIFA and the Afghan authorities to move more decisively on their investigations. “FIFA, which said it began investigating these allegations last April, should share information with Afghan investigators and maintain a ban on accused officials,” the rights group said.Mr. Rasooli said the Afghan attorney general was determined to fully pursue the case against Mr. Keram and the others accused. They have not been arrested, he said, because under Afghan law that would limit the time the authorities had to conduct their investigation.“This is a complicated case,” he said. “We have interviewed 30 witnesses inside Afghanistan and that part of the case is almost completed.”He added that the authorities still hoped to obtain European visas for investigators.Ms. Popal said she was still hopeful that the investigation of Mr. Keram and his colleagues would succeed.“I really respect and trust the committee in the attorney general’s office working on this case,” she said. “At the same time, I don’t know how powerful they are once the case is out of their hands. And he is a powerful guy, with so much influence inside the government.”An earlier version of this article described incorrectly a report by the Afghan program ToloNews about European visa applications by two government investigators. The report said they had not yet obtained the visas, not that the visas had been denied.Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @rodnordland.Fahim Abed contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaFIFA President Gianni Infantino’s plans to reorder world soccer are being stymied by a familiar foe: Europe.Since proposing several major changes to the sport’s calendar last spring, Infantino has spent months traveling the world hosting minisummits with the leaders of FIFA’s 211 member federations. His goal is to win support for a proposal to introduce two new tournaments — an expanded World Cup for clubs and a new league for national teams — that would be underwritten by a $25 billion offer from a group led by the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank.The listening exercise follows repeated failures by Infantino to force the proposals through FIFA’s governing council, but if they are approved they would represent the biggest changes to soccer in a generation, and their adoption — and the multibillion-dollar cash infusion to FIFA — would provide Infantino with a signature success ahead of his bid to secure a second term as FIFA president later this year.Each of the meetings on Infantino’s tour, including the most recent one held in Marrakesh, Morocco, has included about 50 federation leaders from across soccer’s six regional confederations. At the end of each session, the federation representatives are handed electronic tablets and asked to select their preferred options for the new tournaments.Infantino’s problem is that European officials attending the meetings have stubbornly refused to offer any opinions. Instead, they have told Infantino and his team that the feelings of Aleksander Ceferin, the president of the European governing body, UEFA, and his governing council represent their views.Some of the Europeans balked because the list of options for the Club World Cup did not include the option of not holding the tournament, which is often an annoyance for the European champion who attends, at all. On FIFA’s tablets, voters are asked to pick from only three choices: a tournament with 16, 24 or 32 teams.Ceferin, under pressure from clubs and federations in Europe, has clashed repeatedly with Infantino over the proposed changes both to the Club World Cup and to the broader global soccer calendar, with Ceferin most frustrated by new initiatives that could challenge the hegemony of existing club tournaments like UEFA’s Champions League and add to the workload of players.“I cannot accept that some people who are blinded by the pursuit of profit are considering to sell the soul of football tournaments to nebulous private funds,” Ceferin said in a speech last May. “Money does not rule — and the European sports model must be respected. Football is not for sale. I will not let anyone sacrifice its structures on the altar of a highly cynical and ruthless mercantilism.”Infantino first presented details of a plan for an expanded Club World Cup at a FIFA Council meeting in Bogotá, Colombia, last March. Citing a nondisclosure agreement, he refused to identify the financial backers of the proposal, which are believed to include not only SoftBank but also financing from the Middle East, which Infantino eventually denied were directly linked to sovereign wealth funds. (Saudi Arabia remains the biggest individual backer over Softbank’s Vision Fund, the biggest private-equity fund ever raised.) Instead, Infantino pressed the council to let him close the deal on his own.European leaders at the meeting balked, and Ceferin and Infantino have not held a meeting since the Colombia summit. In October, European officials threatened to walk out of the last meeting when Infantino suggested he planned to call another vote.The vote did not take place; instead, FIFA set up a task force involving representatives from the six confederations and asked it to produce an acceptable plan before a scheduled FIFA Council meeting in March in Miami.At the last summit, in Morocco, Infantino expressed frustration to the officials who declined to take part in the vote for his plans, according to multiple people present at the meeting.“As part of this discussion, people are asked to give their feedback on a series of proposals and, as in any democratic consultation process, every member can express its opinion freely,” FIFA said in a statement. “The feedback received will be fed back to the Council together with the results of the other consultation platforms.”FIFA’s task force for the two tournaments will hold its next meeting on Feb. 21 in Rio de Janeiro. As tensions grow, however, there is a chance that European executives will not attend, according to a person familiar with the continental leaders’ plans.UEFA declined to comment. The organization has been seeking the support of European clubs and leagues to oppose Infantino’s proposals. At the last two meetings, Ceferin has arrived armed with signed letters of opposition from The European Club Association, a union of the continent’s top clubs, and a separate group representing the continent’s domestic leagues.The proposals to expand the Club World Cup and to create a new global Nations League similar to the recently created UEFA version largely have the backing of officials from South America, Africa and Asia — likely enough to win a vote should Infantino choose to take one at the Miami meeting. Any such move would exacerbate the growing rift with Europe, however, and potentially lead to a larger crisis if top clubs and leading nations from UEFA refuse to participate in the new FIFA-controlled tournaments.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanAs the N.F.L. officially turned its calendar to the 2019 season on Wednesday, football in New York found itself dramatically revamped. Odell Beckham Jr., the outrageous wide receiver, was no longer with the Giants, and Le’Veon Bell, the ultra-versatile running back, had agreed to a deal with the Jets.Those moves qualified as the headliners of the league’s off-season movement so far, but a number of teams have already made grand attempts to rework their rosters.Coming off a two-year stretch in which the Browns went 1-31, they improved to 7-8-1 in 2018 and the team blossomed in the second half. Trying to keep that momentum, Cleveland traded for Beckham, who is arguably the league’s most talented wide receiver. He and his former Lousiana State University teammate Jarvis Landry will most likely become one of the most productive wide receiver duos in the N.F.L., helping to unlock the enormous potential of quarterback Baker Mayfield in an offense designed by Freddie Kitchens, the team’s first-year head coach.The Browns, not content to improve just on offense, added two impressive players on the defensive line in Sheldon Richardson and Olivier Vernon. Richardson, who has reportedly agreed to a three-year deal with $21.5 million in guaranteed money, will solidify the interior of the line, while Vernon, who was acquired in a trade with the Giants for guard Kevin Zeitler, will provide an edge rusher to complement Myles Garrett.Giving up Zeitler, a talented but expensive lineman, to acquire Vernon was a significant cost, but the Browns still seem greatly improved.Bell has a chance to be something truly special for the Jets. He is a dynamic back unlike any the team has seen since Curtis Martin, and Bell comes over on a deal that is nowhere near as rich as what the 27-year-old running back had hoped for when his salary stalemate with Pittsburgh began last year.If the team had just added Bell — and relied on improvement from quarterback Sam Darnold in his second year — the Jets could have expected a bump up from last year’s 4-12 record. But the Jets apparently have also traded for Kelechi Osemele, a Pro Bowl guard, and agreed to contract terms with the Pro Bowl linebacker C.J. Mosley and the reliable young receiver Jamison Crowder, who will probably play out of the slot. The transactions have been reported by multiple news outlets but not yet announced by the team.The Jets had a long way to go to get back to respectability, but their new coach, Adam Gase, is about to have a lot more talent on his roster than he did a week ago. And after gaining Bell in what should still be his prime, the Jets have an opportunity to be a contender in the near future if they keep building.Last year the Raiders repeatedly denied that they were tanking for draft position, even as they traded the outstanding Khalil Mack and Amari Cooper for draft picks. Regardless of their motivation in those moves, they are clearly trying to build now. The team fleeced Pittsburgh in a deal for Antonio Brown, the star wide receiver, in which the Raiders gave up just two mid-round picks. In moves the team has yet to officially announce, they have reportedly invested a great deal of money in the free agents Trent Brown, Tyrell Williams and Lamarcus Joyner.Whether or not these other moves make the Raiders appreciably better is an open question.Trent Brown, who just won a Super Bowl with New England, is a mammoth left tackle (6 feet 8 inches, 380 pounds). He reportedly got $36.8 million in guaranteed money from Oakland, but other than last season, he had been considered mostly a disappointment. Joyner, who was reportedly guaranteed $16.7 million, blossomed under Wade Phillips’s direction last year with the Rams but has had an uneven career. And Williams, who was a good vertical threat as the No. 2 wide receiver for the Chargers, will need to up his production if he wants to serve as a proper complement to Brown.The Bills did a lot. Some of the team’s acquisitions are fairly minor — running back Frank Gore, 36 in May and entering his 15th season, is inspiring but unlikely to cause a huge impact. But it will be worth watching how the addition of the free agent wide receivers John Brown and Cole Beasley affects second-year quarterback Josh Allen.Allen, as has been well documented, loves to throw deep, and Brown, who was comically underutilized in Baltimore once Lamar Jackson took over at quarterback, is one of the fleetest vertical threats in the game. With Brown as the No. 1 receiver and Beasley in the slot, all Buffalo needs is for Zay Jones or Robert Foster to develop into a reliable No. 2 receiver and Allen, who creates more disruption with his running than some might assume, will be able to truly chuck the ball.In terrible news for the writing room of NBC’s “The Good Place,” Jacksonville moved on from Blake Bortles, a quarterback who occasionally shined on the team’s path to the A.F.C. championship game two years ago but struggled last season. In his place, the Jaguars added the far more reliable Nick Foles, who went from contemplating retirement during the 2015 season to winning a Super Bowl two years later.Foles, whose deal includes more than $50 million in guarantees, is hardly a sure thing to live up to his contract. He has had periods of dramatic ebb and flow and has not started more than 11 games in a season at any point in his seven-season career.Of more concern for Jacksonville is the loss of both Malik Jackson and Tashaun Gipson on defense. The team released both veterans for salary cap reasons, and with Foles now on the books, it is questionable if the Jaguars will be able to afford contract extensions for other defensive stars like Jalen Ramsey and Yannick Ngakoue.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonIn a stunning, audacious move, the Giants on Tuesday traded wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., the team’s most popular and talented player, to the Cleveland Browns for safety Jabrill Peppers and the Browns’ first and third round choices in next month’s college draft.The deal, which cannot be completed until the new league year begins on Wednesday, was confirmed by persons with knowledge of the trade who were not authorized to discuss it.It will be one of the biggest trades in the 94-year history of the typically staid Giants franchise and may prove to be the most controversial. Beckham’s spectacular acrobatic catches, stirring touchdown runs and provocative end zone dances, made him a prominent and occasionally polarizing figure in New York and throughout the N.F.L.[Le’Veon Bell to Join Jets After Sitting Out Season]Nonetheless, since his rookie year in 2014, Beckham’s career, which has already included three Pro Bowl selections, was viewed as incandescent and the Giants seemed to recognize that potential by rewarding Beckham with a five-year, $90 million contract extension last year that made him the league’s highest paid wide receiver.But Beckham’s tenure with the Giants grew troubled soon after the contract was finalized, as he appeared to express displeasure with the spiraling, downward direction of the team in a television interview. Rumors began to circulate that the Giants, who have had only one winning season since 2012, were willing to listen to trade offers for Beckham.The Giants brain trust repeatedly denied Beckham was being shopped to other teams. Late last year and again in recent weeks, the Giants general manager Dave Gettleman insisted that the Giants “didn’t sign Odell to trade him.”Gettleman added: “That’s all I need to say about that.”But Tuesday night the trade with Cleveland was finalized. The Giants will get the 17th overall pick in the draft — they already own the No. 6 pick — along with a third-rounder (No. 95 overall). Peppers, a native of New Jersey and the Browns’ first round choice in 2017, has one interception in 29 games for Cleveland, with 96 solo tackles.The strongest part of Peppers’s skill set is tackling near the line of scrimmage, which makes him similar to Landon Collins, the safety the Giants allowed to enter free agency a few days ago. Collins, however, is a three-time Pro Bowler who agreed to a six-year contract worth $$84 million, $44.5 million of which is guaranteed, with the Washington Redskins.Beckham, 26, leaves the Giants with 390 receptions for 5,476 yards and 44 touchdowns in 59 games. He has averaged 14 yards per catch and ranks in the top five of several N.F.L. receiving categories when compared to his contemporaries in the last five seasons — and that’s after missing 16 games during two seasons because of a broken ankle and a serious hamstring strain.The trade of Beckham will put added scrutiny on the Giants decision-making in next month’s draft and during the free agency period. Beckham’s departure seems a strong indication that the team is girding for a period of rebuilding and will no longer be chasing a playoff berth in 2019, or perhaps even beyond next season. But the team’s continued support for 38-year-old quarterback Eli Manning runs counter to that thinking.The Giants face other challenges, too. Beckham will still count $16 million against the team’s salary cap next season and the roster lacks productive N.F.L. caliber players at multiple pivotal positions both on offense and defense.For the last several months, the Giants conceded they would listen to trade offers for Beckham but indicated it would take some combination of high draft picks and a top N.F.L. starter to lure Beckham away from the Giants.The Giants received neither in Tuesday’s trade.For the long-suffering Browns, the trade is a thunderbolt transaction that will galvanize the franchise, which has never won a Super Bowl. Cleveland not only becomes an overnight playoff candidate, it is a contender to win the rugged A.F.C. North division.Behind quarterback Baker Mayfield, the first overall pick of the 2018 college draft, the Browns were a startling 7-8-1 last season and benefited from a rejuvenated offense built around young stars. Coach Freddie Kitchens, whose background is as an offensive coach, will now have one of the top weapons in the N.F.L. to complement second-year running back Nick Chubb and veteran wide receiver Jarvis Landry, who is Beckham’s former college teammate at Louisiana State. Beckham and Landry are also good friends.As for the Giants, they have no wide receivers under contract beyond next season and that includes the new ace of the receiving corps, Sterling Shepard, a three-year veteran with 30 fewer touchdown receptions than Beckham.Late Tuesday night, Beckham seemed prepared to move on from the team that drafted him with the 12th pick five years ago. Speaking with the NFL Network after what he described as a brief conversation with Gettleman, Beckham said: “At this point I have no idea what to think. I’m trying to process it right now.” Beckham added that leaving the Giants was, “bittersweet, but it is what it is. It’s life.”An earlier version of this article misstated the terms of Landon Collins’s contract with the Washington Redskins. It is a six-year deal worth $84 million — not three years worth $45 million, which is the guaranteed portion of the contract.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — Dr. Bernice A. King, the youngest child of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King, was brought out to midfield for the coin toss before Super Bowl LIII. She was joined by two other titanic civil rights leaders, Ambassador Andrew Young and Representative John Lewis.Before the game began, the N.F.L. also played a video in the stadium that included images of Dr. King and other civil rights leaders, interspersed with images of N.F.L. players doing charity work.On television, CBS ran a public service announcement that showed Commissioner Roger Goodell and other league executives touring the Ebenezer Baptist Church and other landmarks associated with Martin Luther King Jr.For the many Super Bowl viewers who do not closely follow the league, and perhaps many who do, such imagery probably came across as proper and right for a game played in Atlanta, known as the cradle of the civil rights movement.Yet it underscored something else: a league still struggling with race and seeking a balance between fans and players who find no reason to talk about it and those who find it front and center in a simmering controversy over a player who has not played a down since the 2016 season.The presence of the civil rights leaders did not seem to win over supporters of the player, Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who in 2016 began taking a knee during the national anthem to protest racism and police brutality against people of color and has not played a down since that season.Even before the game, many resolved not to watch, including the film director Ava DuVernay, who accused the N.F.L. of “racist treatment of @Kaepernick7” and lamented an “ongoing disregard for the health + well-being of players.”And the presence of the civil rights leaders was met with confusion, and in some cases derision, by those who feel Kaepernick has been blackballed.“Ummmm why are Bernice King, John Lewis, and Andrew Young standing on this field giving the N.F.L. cover,” wrote the voting rights advocate Kat Calvin.Yet the overture spoke to an effort by the N.F.L. to thread the needle between appeasing conservative fans — there were military flyovers and giant flags and shout-outs to war veterans — and addressing the questions and criticism it has received over racial issues.It has undertaken a public relations move to line up African-American figures who either have objected to Kaepernick’s form of protest or are willing to look past it. Their message, after all, has long been about bridge-building and healing.“My mission is #JusticeForAll,’’ Ms. King wrote on Twitter after the coin toss. “Humanity is turning the tide and our efforts must include bridge builders, strategic negotiators and ambassadors.”In the end, Gladys Knight, who had taken aim at Kaepernick for kneeling during the song, sung the national anthem. No players knelt, the moment far less weighted than it has been in the past.As Knight sang the anthem, the Air Force Thunderbirds flew over Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where the retractable roof was opened for the occasion. During a timeout in the third quarter, military veterans who won the Medal of Honor were shown on the stadium scoreboard and given a standing ovation. Military veterans in the stadium were encouraged to stand as well.Still, the anthem issue promises to take another twist in the off season.In the coming months, Kaepernick’s grievance accusing the league of colluding to keep him off a team will be ruled on by an arbitrator hearing the case.Win or lose, the league could find itself on the defensive among fans it has been courting with its civil rights overtures.If the league wins its case, supporters of Kaepernick may doubt the outcome — a string of lesser quarterbacks statistically have found teams. If the league loses, a conventional wisdom would be validated and the league would be in the embarrassing position of paying millions dollars to a player who has not suited up since 2016.Kaepernick for his part has spent the past several days posting images on social media of celebrities — LeBron James, among them — supporting him.The one thing the league seems certain to count on is that not many players kneel at all these days.This has been a season of get back to football. Even though the Super Bowl game lacked the thrill of recent nail-biters — the Patriots beat the Rams, 13-3, the lowest-scoring Super Bowl ever — the N.F.L. can take the lack of drama, in the game and off, as a sign of regaining its footing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe N.F.L. and its players association defended their policy of random drug testing of the league’s players on Wednesday after Carolina Panthers safety Eric Reid suggested that he had been subjected to a curiously high number of them this season.Reid, who joined the Panthers in Week 4, noted in December that he had been selected for a drug test for the seventh time this season. Ten players from each team are selected for testing each week, according to the league’s drug policy, and Yahoo Sports reported that the chance a single player would be chosen for so many tests randomly was about 1 in 500.Number 7... ”Random” pic.twitter.com/6HkxXCZhQP“I’ve been here 11 weeks, I’ve been drug-tested seven times,” Reid told reporters. “That has to be statistically impossible. I’m not a mathematician, but there’s no way that’s random.”In a joint statement, the league and players union said Wednesday that the accusation that Reid had been subjected to an inordinate number of tests deliberately had been investigated by the administrator of the drug policy and “that Mr. Reid’s tests were randomly generated via computer algorithm and that his selection for testing was normal.”“There is no evidence of targeting or any other impropriety with respect to his selection for testing,” the joint statement said.Reid has been a close ally of his former 49ers teammate Colin Kaepernick and has backed protests over police brutality and racism, kneeling during the national anthem throughout the season. He filed a grievance against the N.F.L. in the off-season when he had few takers as a free agent. The Panthers eventually signed him in late September.His grievance is due to be heard in the coming off season.“I guess there was something about some mathematician saying it’s highly improbable, but definitely possible,” Carolina Coach Ron Rivera said last month. “But I’ll say this: If my name came up that many times, I’d buy a lottery ticket.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Kevin ArmstrongWhen the Mets hired Brodie Van Wagenen as their new general manager last October, they wholly embraced, even promoted, his status as an unconventional outsider — a converted player agent. The team made a similarly unorthodox addition on Tuesday, announcing that Jessica Mendoza, a baseball analyst for ESPN, would join the team’s front office as a baseball operations adviser to Van Wagenen.The Mets said Mendoza, a softball gold medalist in the 2004 Olympic Games who joined ESPN in 2007, would focus on player evaluation, roster construction, and health and performance. But in noting that Mendoza also would retain her high-profile role on “Sunday Night Baseball” telecasts, the announcement gave a new dimension to questions about objectivity for ESPN. The network has long covered sports while also paying leagues billions of dollars each year to air them, and it has increasingly seen its own employees blur the lines between covering and participating in sports.Van Wagenen said at a news conference Tuesday morning that hiring Mendoza furthered the team’s efforts to shake up the way it does business.“I was an outside-the-box hire,” Van Wagenen said. “I’ve been a believer that you need to get new voices and fresh perspectives in any room, especially when you are making decisions.”Mendoza, 38, has a sterling history in softball and baseball. She was one of the best college softball players ever, and later won a gold medal at the 2004 Athens Games and a silver in 2008. She has been with ESPN for about 12 years and became a color analyst on “Sunday Night Baseball” — the network’s flagship baseball program — in 2016.While Mendoza will evaluate players and provide input on roster construction, Van Wagenen said she would be especially influential in the areas of health and performance and technology. He also said she would work for the Mets during baseball’s annual general manager and winter meetings in the off-season, suggesting her role would be more consequential than those of others — including the ex-Yankee Alex Rodriguez — who are both broadcasters and advisers for teams.Mendoza’s deal with the Mets includes a confidentiality agreement, Van Wagenen said, adding that she would not share on her broadcast “anything she gleans from our operation.” She also will not be allowed to share with the Mets anything she learns about other teams through her ESPN duties. Mendoza will be in the Mets’ training camp in Port St. Lucie, Fla., on Friday.ESPN has long had a revolving door between the playing fields and the broadcast booth. Just last week, Jason Witten left “Monday Night Football” to return to his N.F.L. playing career, one year after Jon Gruden did the same to return to coaching.Still, Mendoza’s hire is different. She is perhaps ESPN’s highest-profile baseball voice, one of the network’s most important employees on its most important baseball broadcast. She is currently scheduled to be in the booth for a June game between the Mets and Atlanta Braves.ESPN shrugged off suggestions of conflict of interest, and argued that Mendoza was far from the first baseball broadcaster to navigate such concerns. “There are numerous examples across networks of these type of arrangements where commentators work closely with teams, and we will be fully transparent about Jessica’s relationship with the Mets,” said Josh Krulewitz, an ESPN spokesman. “We have complete faith in her ability as a leading M.L.B. voice for ESPN.”ESPN’s relationship with baseball is especially intimate. The network also employs Rodriguez, who is a special adviser for the Yankees, and David Ross, a special assistant for the Cubs. On Tuesday, ESPN also announced that the Yankees pitcher C. C. Sabathia would contribute to various ESPN television shows this season, mostly in coverage of sports other than baseball.Other networks have similar situations: The retired baseball players Frank Thomas and David Ortiz, who both work for Fox, also have roles with their old teams. But Van Wagenen’s insistence that Mendoza would have input on important baseball decisions seems to set her apart from other broadcasters’ or ex-players’ roles as “special advisers,” a role that tends to be more ceremonial than substantive. Ross and Rodriguez are not listed as part of the front office on their respective teams’ websites, and Thomas is an adviser for business operations. When Ortiz’s role was announced, he focused on his duties of recruiting free agents and making community appearances.Like ESPN, the Mets are accustomed to the revolving door in the baseball industry. Van Wagenen was hired from Creative Artists Agency, where he represented Mets stars like Jacob deGrom and Yoenis Cespedes. In taking the job, Van Wagenen divested himself from his stake in C.A.A., and he has said that he will recuse himself from any contract negotiations with past clients, including deGrom. If that wasn’t confusing enough, Mendoza is also represented by C.A.A. And then there’s Tim Tebow, working his way up through the Mets’ minor-league ranks while remaining with ESPN as a college football analyst.Kevin Draper reported from New York, and Kevin Armstrong from Port St. Lucie, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Rams and the Chiefs were the darlings of the league this season, but can they beat the Saints and the Patriots to get to the Super Bowl?By Benjamin HoffmanFor all the excitement created by the N.F.L.’s offensive fireworks this season, the league could be accused of being predictable. From roughly Week 5 forward, the Rams, the Saints and the Chiefs were considered favorites to get to this point. And while it was a down season for the Patriots, relatively speaking, it will probably be several years after Tom Brady’s retirement before people stop assuming he will find a way into the A.F.C. championship game.So after all those yards and touchdowns, it comes down to the top four offenses battling to reach the Super Bowl. Four elite quarterbacks, four teams with terrific running games and four head coaches who seem more than capable of getting the most out of their players.There will almost certainly be a great deal of scoring in both games, but the results could hinge on a key takeaway or a key pressure from one of the less-heralded defenses. And whichever teams eke out a win will meet in Atlanta two weeks later in Super Bowl LIII. Here are our predictions for how the conference championships will sort out, both in terms of who will win and who will win against the spread.Last week’s record against the spread: 2-2Playoff record against the spread: 4-3-1N.F.C.3:05 p.m., FoxSomehow the Week 9 showdown between Los Angeles and New Orleans did not receive the hype or the praise of the Rams’ thrilling win against Kansas City in Week 11, but it was not for a lack of excitement or importance. The teams combined for 80 points and 970 yards of offense, and the Saints ended the Rams’ undefeated start to the season.While that result essentially decided home-field advantage for this game, and there are certainly aspects of that game that could serve as a preview for this one, the Rams’ roster gained two important additions after that day: Aqib Talib and C.J. Anderson.First and foremost is Talib, the Pro Bowl cornerback who was among the Rams’ most prominent acquisitions last off-season. He injured his ankle in Week 3, had an operation and did not return until Week 13. Talib, 32, immediately took the team’s secondary from awful to adequate.On top of that, Los Angeles has gotten a boost in the last three games from Anderson, a running back who never quite reached his potential in Denver, and spent this season on three teams. He appears to have found a home as a second running option alongside Todd Gurley, helping spare Gurley’s balky knee from abuse and providing a different look at the position.Those additions level the playing field considerably, but there are plenty of reasons the Saints were the N.F.C.’s top team in the regular season, and all of them hold true. Quarterback Drew Brees is still firing on all cylinders. The team’s running game is among the best — and the most versatile — in the entire N.F.L. Michael Thomas is among the game’s most talented wide receivers. And the New Orleans defense does a terrific job of stopping the run.In what should be a fantastic game between evenly matched teams, the deciding factor could be which overmatched secondary performs better. There will be a lot of yardage regardless, but if Talib can limit Thomas, the opportunity is there for the Rams to come away with a road upset and their first trip to the Super Bowl since the 2001 season.Pick to win: RamsPick against the spread: Rams +3.5A.F.C.6:40 p.m., CBSTom Brady and the rest of the Patriots seem to believe that the football world has lost faith in them. It’s true that many people picked the Chargers to win last week — though the Patriots were officially 4-point favorites in the game — but even the most ardent believers in Los Angeles’s chances seemed aware that the combination of Brady, Bill Belichick and Foxborough could easily lead to a win for New England. Fast-forward one week, and the Patriots are underdogs not just in spirit but also in reality against a team that spent most of the season with people assuming it would reach the Super Bowl. The faith in quarterback Patrick Mahomes came quickly, but it was also warranted, as he followed his 5,097-yard, 50-touchdown regular season by easily dispatching the Indianapolis Colts in his playoff debut last weekend.When the Patriots and Chiefs met in Week 6, Mahomes had about as much success as a visiting young starter could expect in New England, throwing for 352 yards and four touchdowns. But he also threw a pair of interceptions and endured the first loss of his professional career. Of concern to the Patriots, however, is that Mahomes seemed to be figuring things out against them as the game went along. Kansas City outscored New England, 31-19, in the second half of that game, and Mahomes tied the score with just over three minutes to play by hitting Tyreek Hill for a 75-yard touchdown — only to have Brady march his team downfield for a game-winning, 28-yard field goal as time expired.Now the Chiefs get a turn to host, and Arrowhead Stadium should be nice and frigid, with temperatures expected to be in the low 20s. Last weekend, in the Chiefs’ win over Indianapolis, Coach Andy Reid compensated for the snow and cold by focusing on the run, and it worked: Four Kansas City players scored rushing touchdowns. The defense did its part by harassing Colts quarterback Andrew Luck into a poor game.This time, the Chiefs may want to focus on the pass. New England is vulnerable there, having allowed 3,943 passing yards this season and 29 touchdowns through the air, though the damage was mitigated by a decent number of interceptions. As Mahomes has proved repeatedly, he can take chances while still minimizing turnover risk, and if he can turn this game into a shootout, he has the advantage, thanks to his team’s superior skill players.This all adds up to Kansas City’s rightly being the favorite, with an extremely good shot of playing in the Super Bowl for the first time since Len Dawson led the Chiefs to a win over the Vikings in Super Bowl IV. Brady has every right to feel confident in his chances, based on the fact that things virtually always work out for him and his team. Chiefs fans have every right to be worried, based on their franchise’s playoff history, but if Mahomes is Mahomes, that will be enough to warrant Las Vegas’s faith in Kansas City. Pick to win: ChiefsPick against the spread: Chiefs -3.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterThe American Soybean Association takes issue with an editorial.To the Editor:“Will Mr. Trump Trade Away the Future?” (editorial, March 10) sets up soybeans as a scapegoat if the administration removes its tariffs under an initial deal that doesn’t resolve structural concerns with Chinese trade and business practices. To suggest that farmers are pushing the administration to accept a lesser deal is unfair.The American Soybean Association has been vocal that the retaliatory tariff imposed by China on imports of United States soybeans must be removed in any agreement. But we have also supported addressing long-term structural issues with China. We are skeptical of one-off commitments by China to buy American soybeans and have advocated for tariff and nontariff barriers to be removed so that we can compete on a level playing field.Long before China’s trade practices became an issue for the national media and a political football in Washington, American soybean farmers were working to establish a relationship with China’s livestock industry and government that has fostered greater interdependence between our two countries. Any agreement that dials back the current tariffs should not be criticized as a political concession to our industry. It should be recognized as a necessary step toward finding better balance in a difficult but essential trade relationship.Davie StephensClinton, Ky.The writer is president of the American Soybean Association. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleNote for Teachers: Join our Feb. 6 free webinar on teaching with New York Times-inspired writing prompts. Sign up here._________Are you a football fan? Will you be watching the Super Bowl this Sunday?If you are a fan, who do you think will win? Why?If you’re not, is there anything you enjoy about Super Bowl Sunday, whether it’s the Puppy Bowl, the halftime show, the advertisements or even just the snacks?In “Super Bowl LIII Will Have a Young Coach, an Old Coach and a Lot of Things in Between,” Victor Mather writes about the story lines for Sunday’s game. Here are some of them:Not every Super Bowl is super, and we’ll find out if this year’s edition fits the tag on Feb. 3. But we do know some of what is in store.One of those things is (no surprise) the New England Patriots, who will be appearing in their third consecutive Super Bowl and fourth in five years. The Rams will be the first team to represent Los Angeles in the game since 1984.Those are not the only records and oddities about Super Bowl LIII.Game of AgesSean McVay, who took over the Rams last season after a meteoric rise as an N.F.L. assistant, turns 33 this week, which will make him the youngest head coach in Super Bowl history. He breaks the record held by Mike Tomlin, who was 36 when his Pittsburgh Steelers won the big game in 2009.At 66, Bill Belichick will not be the oldest Super Bowl coach, as Marv Levy went to the game with the Bills at age 67 and 68. But Belichick could become the oldest winner, breaking the record held by Tom Coughlin, who was 65 when the Giants beat the Patriots in 2012.Game of Ages IITom Brady is 41 and will become the oldest Super Bowl starting quarterback. He breaks the record set by, well, Tom Brady last year.At 24, Jared Goff is not the youngest Super Bowl starter, but he’s not far off. Dan Marino was the youngest, at 23 years 127 days, and Ben Roethlisberger was just behind him at 23 years 340 days.By the NumberThe Roman numerals have reached LIII, or 53. You could also call it Super Bowl 110101 if you prefer binary numbers or Super Bowl 35 if hexadecimal is more your thing.It’s the first prime-number Super Bowl since XLVII (Ravens over 49ers, 34-31.)Among the athletes who have worn No. 53: Don Drysdale, Harry Carson, Artis Gilmore and Darryl Dawkins.DiversionPop band Maroon 5 and rappers Big Boi and Travis Scott will perform the halftime show. Up with People, which headlined the show four times, is still awaiting its first appearance since 1986.Gladys Knight will sing the national anthem, a year after Pink did the honors. Knight will join an odd mix of stars to carry out the duties, a list that includes Lady Gaga (2016), Billy Joel (1989 and 2007), Cher (1999), Kathie Lee Gifford (1995) and Al Hirt (1970).Gamblers are saying the anthem performance will last 1 minute 50 seconds. You can bet on it. Or on whether a player will kneel (5-1 against). Or if a fan runs on the field (15-1). Or the color of Adam Levine of Maroon 5’s shirt (Black is the favorite) or whether a Coke or Pepsi commercial will appear first, or — well, you get the idea.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Are you planning to watch Super Bowl LIII? If so, what are you most looking forward to — the game, the commercials, the parties or the halftime show? If not, why not?— If you’re a football fan, what do you think of the matchup of the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots? Who are you rooting for? Who do you think will win? What do you think will be the final score? Which players do you think will stand out and why?— Of the narratives outlined in the article, which story line is most compelling to you and why?— What do you think about the choice for this season’s Super Bowl halftime performers? If you could see anyone perform at the Super Bowl, whom would you want to see, and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Hoffman and Bill PenningtonIn the Year of Offense, the N.F.L.’s championship game didn’t have much. A dreary Super Bowl that featured a combined 14 punts ended with a sixth title for Tom Brady and the New England Patriots, who beat the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, on Sunday.As he has so many times, Rob Gronkowski was there when Tom Brady needed him most, picking up a pair of huge first downs on what proved to be the decisive drive in the Patriots’ victory.It was a year defined by offensive brilliance, but at Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium, the game turned into a defensive slugfest defined largely by the game’s punters.Neither team had reached the red zone until midway through the fourth quarter but Brady, looking to get something going, twice exploited a coverage mismatch on Gronkowski, completing passes of 18 and 29 yards to his big tight end, which set up Sony Michel’s 2-yard touchdown run that put New England up to stay.The throwback connection between quarterback and tight end proved to be too much for Los Angeles on a day when Coach Sean McVay’s highlight-reel offense was forced to punt on its first eight possessions of the game — and 9 times overall — and was limited to just 205 total yards.Brady finished the day having passed for 262 yards while Goff, who reached the Super Bowl in his third season, struggled the entire game and finished with 229 yards.Julian Edelman, with 10 catches for 141 yards, was named the game’s Most Valuable Player, completing his comeback from a devastating knee injury last year by winning his third career Super Bowl.“I’m pretty ecstatic,” Julian Edelman said in an on-field interview “I’m emotionally pooped. Mentally and physically pooped.”In what would prove to be a crushing blow to the Rams, the Patriots were able to follow up Sony Michel’s touchdown with a turnover, as Jared Goff was intercepted by Stephon Gilmore late in the fourth quarter, allowing New England to slow the game down and walk away with a victory.For Brady the win gave him a sixth Super Bowl ring, breaking a tie with the Hall of Fame defensive end Charles Haley for the most by an individual player, and it tied the Patriots with the Pittsburgh Steelers for the most by any team.Here’s how the Patriots’ won their sixth title: The Patriots just needed to chew up clock, and they did that and more, reeling off 72 yards on nine plays, taking up 3 minutes and 5 seconds, and increasing their lead with a 41-yard field goal by Stephen Gostkowski. They now lead 13-3 with 1:12 remaining in the game.The key plays on the drive included a 26-yard run by Sony and a 26-yard run by Rex Burkhead.The Rams will receive the ball, but down by 10 points with no timeouts they would need to score immediately, execute an onside kick, and then score again.Possibly inspired by New England’s touchdown, the Rams began racing down the field with a series of long plays, but after Jared Goff’s pass to Brandin Cooks just barely fell incomplete at the goal line, Goff tried to challenge the New England defense on a second consecutive play and he paid for it when Stephone Gilmore was easily able to step in front of the pass for an interception.The Patriots now have the lead and the ball with 4:17 remaining in the game.Bill Pennington: Tremendous anticipation by Stephon Gilmore on the interception. Goff tried to go to Cooks in the same spot as the previous play that nearly resulted in a touchdown, but Gilmore was staring at Goff the entire play — he all but turned his back and ignored Cooks. When Goff’s pass fluttered, Gilmore watched it into his hands the whole way.Tom Brady needed to get something going and Rob Gronkowski was happy to oblige. Two connections between the future Hall of Famers led to the game’s first touchdown, which was scored on a 2-yard run by Sony Michel. The Patriots now lead, 10-3.The drive started with Brady taking advantage of blown coverage by Samson Ebukam to set up an 18-yard catch by Gronkowski. Just three plays later, Brady went to Gronk again, this time for a 29-yard gain that ended with the supersized tight end sliding to a stop just 2 yards short of the end zone.From there it was fairly simple as Michel has been almost unstoppable at the goal line in the postseason and he went into the end zone easily.Bill Pennington: The Rams desperately need a sustained offensive drive. Their defense is exhausted.The Rams managed to have a nine-play drive generate just 23 yards as a result of penalties and Johnny Hekker punted for a ninth time. This game has surely been terrific for Hekker’s parents, as he is up to 417 punting yards, but for everyone else it has been remarkably frustrating to watch as neither team has been into the red zone yet.At this point it is seeming like the game will come down to a turnover generating points rather than either offense suddenly waking up, though with either squad points could suddenly accumulate quickly.If you like punters, this game is great.After the Patriots picked up a first down by way of a defensive holding penalty, they got a second on an entertaining 19-yard run by Sony Michel in which the rookie running back bounced off several defenders before being brought down.Michel picked up another 6 yards on a pair of carries to close out the third quarter, and then on the first play of the fourth quarter, Tom Brady’s pass attempt to James White fell incomplete, setting up yet another punt.There have been 12 punts so far.Greg Zeurlein just barely lived up to his Legatron nickname, tying the game with a 53-yard field goal that was not one of his signature booming kicks but did enough to get over the crossbar. The game is now tied, 3-3.The Rams offense had gotten the ball back quickly thanks to some terrific defensive work from Marcus Peters, and they picked up a first down with a short throw to Josh Reynolds and a run by C.J. Anderson.Encouraged by the conversion, Jared Goff threw deep to Brandin Cooks for a picture-perfect 16-yard gain.A run by Anderson went for 3 yards, Goff threw an incomplete pass off Anderson’s back side to avoid a sack, and on 3rd-and-7, but Goff once again rocketed a ball downfield, connecting with Robert Woods for an 18-yard gain.Goff threw incomplete to Cooks in the end zone, with Jason McCourty making a nice play to prevent the touchdown, but Goff picked up 3 yards on second down with a short pass to Anderson. On 3rd-and-7, Goff was absolutely demolished by Dont’a Hightower for a 9-yard loss that forced the field goal attempt.While the sack of Goff was a bit demoralizing, the young quarterback looked far more confident on this drive.The Rams had some excitement, but not the kind they wanted, narrowly avoiding a safety on a drive that started on their own 2-yard line.The Rams got a little breathing room to start the drive with a pair of 2-yard runs by Todd Gurley. On 3rd-and-6 from the Rams’ 6-yard line, Jared Goff threw wildly to his right to avoid a safety, with the pass falling incomplete.Johnny Hekker came out for his eighth punt and proceeded to set a Super Bowl record with a 65-yard punt that was aided by a remarkably friendly bounce.Hekker is up to 8 punts for 378 yards and has been a huge help in keeping Los Angeles from falling further behind in this game.Marcus Peters broke up a third-down pass intended for Julian Edelman, forcing New England to punt on its first offensive play of the second half.The Patriots had started the drive on their own 8-yard line after a terrific punt by Johnny Hekker, but they were able to pick up a huge 27-yard gain by Edelman on a short pass from Tom Brady. Once again, Los Angeles took the blow in stride and continued to play tight defense.Edelman is up to 8 catches for 120 yards early in the third quarter, but the Patriots have announced that their defense will be short-handed the rest of the way, as Patrick Chung is officially out with an arm injury.Todd Gurley is here, but even that wasn’t enough to prevent yet another Rams punt to start the second half.The star running back took a second down handoff and raced through the New England defense for a 16-yard gain. He followed up that burst with two runs that combined for 5 yards, but on 3rd-and-5 Jared Goff’s pass to Brandin Cooks was knocked to the ground by Stephon Gilmore.Johnny Hekker came out yet again, punting for the seventh time today.Patrick Chung, the Patriots’ veteran safety, had to come out of the game after appearing to break his right arm on Gurley’s second run of the drive. He was replaced by Duron Harmon.After an almost unwatchable first half, this game can easily be taken over by either team in the second half.For the Rams, the key will be finding a way to run the ball. Todd Gurley has been almost entirely absent with no explanation, and he and C.J. Anderson have combined for just 20 yards on seven carries. That has let New England’s defenders pin their ears back and go after Jared Goff on every play. The third-year quarterback has not responded well, completing 5 of his 12 passes, with 18 of his 52 yards coming on a pass to Robert Woods that very likely was an incompletion.In the second half, Goff needs to get back to his confident downfield throws, letting Brandin Cooks and Robert Woods break off some big plays, and if the running game can’t help establish that room, Goff will simply have to get the ball out faster.For the Patriots, running the ball more would help, but they could improve simply by having the Rams regress to the mean on defense. Marcus Peters, Aqib Talib and Nickell Robey-Coleman have all played great games, thanks in part to the Rams putting pressure on Brady, but the Los Angeles defense had to spend nearly 20 minutes on the field in the first half, and both Peters and Robey-Coleman are prone to mistakes if they are challenged repeatedly.The Rams definitely qualify as more frustrated as they failed to score any points despite generating an interception, a missed field goal and a turnover on downs, but with how close New England has tended to stay to their opponents in Super Bowls, the missed field goal by Stephen Gostkowski in the first quarter could easily come back to haunt New England.After a lackluster first half to the Super Bowl, halftime show headliner Maroon 5 took the stage — a giant ‘M’ stretching 40 yards across the field — to a barrage of fireworks and flames. Unfortunately the 100 million fans at home weren’t given a respite from the game’s mediocrity.The highlight of the show came about halfway through, when a drum line and choir joined Maroon 5 lead singer Adam Levine to belt out the hit “Girls Like You.” (At home, the highlight for many was the SpongeBob SquarePants interlude.)In theory, Travis Scott and Big Boi were Maroon 5’s co-stars. Scott rapped “Sicko Mode” — heavily censored on television — early in the show, and Big Boi appeared late in a classic car, wearing a fur jacket. He sang the Outkast hit “The Way You Move” with Levine playing the role of Andre 3000.In practice they only sang one song a piece. Levine even joined Big Boi, unfortunately playing the role of Big Boi’s Outkast co-star, Andre 3000.It was truly the Adam Levine show, as he ran through all of Maroon 5’s hits: “Harder to Breathe,” “This Love,” “She Will Be Loved” and finally ending the show with “Sugar.” Levine grew progressively less clothed throughout the 15-minute show, and as he sang the final bar of “Sugar” he was shirtless, with flames crackling all around him.With the Super Bowl in Atlanta, the N.F.L. had a surfeit of local musicians to choose from for the halftime show: Outkast, T.I., Lil Jon, Future, 2 Chainz and Migos. The list goes on and on.It seems quite telling of something that they chose Maroon 5. — Kevin DraperThe first half was a mess of punts and offensive ineptitude, with neither team looking like the powerhouses they had been throughout the playoffs.It’s the lowest first-half score since Super Bowl IX, when the Steelers led the Vikings, 2-0, at the half.The Rams defense has played better than anyone could have predicted, holding the Patriots to just 3 points and repeatedly stopping promising drives with tenacious pass defense and occasional bursts of interior pressure. But that still added up to Los Angeles being down at halftime thanks to a horrendous effort from the Rams’ offense, with all six Rams drives ending in punts.The Rams offense generated just 57 yards in the first half, with Jared Goff dealing with a great deal of pressure and not being able to get anything going, which is at least partially a result of Los Angeles not being able to establish the run at all behind Todd Gurley and C.J. Anderson.Tom Brady threw for 160 yards in the half, repeatedly picking up first downs to Julian Edelman, but thus far he has been almost entirely stymied by the Rams’ defense which has clearly made a point of delivering hard hits and not being discouraged despite the occasional Edelman outbursts.The stars of the game, if anyone qualifies, are Edelman, who has 93 receiving yards, and Johnny Hekker, who has punted for 267 yards.Bill Pennington: In three postseason games this year, Bill Belichick’s Patriots have now given up 7 points. That’s against some pretty decent competition: Chargers, Chiefs and Rams.Tom Brady’s throw to Rob Gronkowski on a 4th-and-1 from the Rams’ 32-yard line led to an unexpected turnover on downs, ending another promising New England drive.Brady had started the drive with an 11-yard pass to Julian Edelman in which Edelman ran over Aqib Talib to secure the first down.After a short run by Rex Burkhead, Edelman picked up another first down, this one with a 9-yard catch-and-run in which he was able to get to the edge to secure an extra yard or two.The Patriots picked up another first down a few plays later thanks to the Rams having 12 men on the field, but after Brady threw incomplete on consecutive passes he found himself with a 3rd-and-10, and his pass to Patterson fell just short of converting when Marcus Peters knocked Patterson down just short of the marker.That set up the 4th down play in which Gronkowski could not quite get to Brady’s pass.Bill Pennington: Jared Goff is rushing his throws, out of sync in the pocket. The Rams ought to take a page out of the Patriots’ playbook and settle for some shorter throws. Getting the ball out of Goff’s hand quicker might yield a couple completions and help with his confidence and sense of timing in the pocket.The Rams, who averaged 32.9 points a game this season, have had the ball five times and they have punted five times.Todd Gurley was finally back on the field, which seemed like it could be a morale boost for Los Angeles, and he picked up 8 yards on a pair of rushing plays to start the drive. On 3rd-and-2, Jared Goff rolled out after a play-action fake, avoided one sack, but then was knocked backward for a 14-yard loss thanks to terrific pressure from Kyle Van Noy.Johnny Hekker has already punted for 209 yards.The Rams offense could not answer the Patriots’ score, going 23 yards on 5 plays, giving the ball back to New England with a punt.It had briefly looked like the Los Angeles offense had woken up when Jared Goff found Robert Woods on the sideline for an 18-yard gain that may have benefited from a bad call, as Woods did not clearly get both feet down. New England held strong after the play, allowing a 3-yard pass, knocking C.J. Anderson back for a 3-yard loss, and then playing great defense on Josh Reynolds on a third-down pass that fell incomplete.Los Angeles has had absolutely no offensive rhythm in this game while their defense has been far more impressive.Stephen Gostkowski connected on a 42-yard field goal attempt, putting the Patriots up 3-0 with 10:29 left in the first half.The scoring drive was set up as a result of a crucial third down reception by Julian Edelman — no surprise there — as he turned a 3rd-and-1 into a 25-yard gain.New England struggled after that connection, failing to convert a first down even after Tom Brady found Rob Gronkowski on a short pass, but they had gotten close enough for Gostkowski to hit fairly easily, making up for his miss earlier in the game.The teams punted on consecutive drives, but the Rams made a defensive statement on their last stop of the first quarter, putting some real pressure on Tom Brady while also dealing with some long gains from New England’s receivers.The quarter closed in a scoreless tie, with neither team threatening beyond Stephen Gostkowski’s missed field goal attempt, but Los Angeles has to be encouraged after John Franklin-Myers produced a strip-sack, Marcus Peters very nearly intercepted a pass, and Aaron Donald forced an incompletion as he whipped Brady to the ground, a play that led to New England’s first punt.The Rams have yet to do anything on offense in this game, but they have an interception, they are getting to Brady, and they have endured a few of Julian Edelman’s signature third-down conversions without giving up a score.Bill Pennington: The Patriots ran twice as many plays as the Rams in the first quarter. Rams had only one first down and were 0-for-3 on third down. The Rams defense is playing with a lot of energy and fire but the offense looks lifeless and uncertain.New England had a chance to go up 3-0 but Stephen Gostkowski missed wide-left on a 46-yard field goal attempt.The Patriots had started the drive on their own 12-yard line, but got into their typical rhythm, executing a series of short plays that consistently moved the chains. The Rams twice had huge defensive opportunities slip away from them, once when Julian Edelman ripped off an 11-yard catch-and-run on 3rd-and-9, and once when Nickell Robey Coleman’s crushing hit of Rex Burkhead on a 2nd-and-14 was determined to be a defenseless receiver violation and an automatic first down.A nice play-action fake following the penalty led to a 19-yard pass to Rob Gronkowski, but it was followed by a run attempt by Rex Burkhead that went for 2 yard, a deep pass attempt to Chris Hogan that fell incomplete in the end zone, and a run by James White that went for 3, leading to Gostkowski’s ill-fated field goal attempt.As a result of what appeared to be communication issues, New England was forced to use two of its timeouts on this drive.Bill Pennington: The Patriots haven’t scored but if the Rams secondary doesn’t move closer to the line of scrimmage and tighten up its coverage, it’s going to be a long day for them. Brady will take those throws underneath all day long.Gostkowski had not missed a kick in his last five games including the playoffs. But he did miss five of 32 field goal attempts in the regular season and one extra point try.The Patriots were driving down the field fairly easily, picking up a pair of first downs on three consecutive runs, but Nickell Robey-Coleman, the defensive back who committed the controversial pass interference in the N.F.C. championship, was able to tip away a pass attempt to Chris Hogan, leading to an interception by Cory Littleton. Absolutely a huge turnover on a drive where the Patriots looked to be marching their way to a first quarter score.The Rams managed just two yards on their first two offensive plays, with a 2-yard run by Todd Gurley and an incomplete pass by Jared Goff. On 3rd-and-8, Goff tried to hit Josh Reynolds on a crossing route but the team’s third wide receiver could not handle the pass and it fell incomplete, leading to a Johnny Hekker punt.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherPatriots owner Robert K. Kraft’s arraignment on charges of soliciting prostitution has been moved a day later, to March 28, court papers said on Thursday, and will no longer overlap with the N.F.L. annual meetings.Despite an all-capital warning on the document saying, “The defendant must be present at this hearing,” a spokeswoman for the Palm Beach County clerk’s office clarified that Mr. Kraft could still be represented at the hearing by his lawyers.Lawyers with experience representing clients in these kinds of cases in Palm Beach County, Fla., said that the “Notice of Hearing” document is considered a form letter and that lawyers represent most defendants at these hearings. Lawyers for Mr. Kraft did not immediately return calls seeking comment, but said in a statement to The Boston Globe that he would not appear at the hearing.The arraignment was originally scheduled for March 27, the final day of the league meetings in Phoenix. The hearing will be at a satellite court in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., not the main courthouse in downtown West Palm Beach.Mr. Kraft faces two first-degree misdemeanor charges, which include a penalty of up to one year in jail. He has pleaded not guilty and denies any criminal activity. The police say they have video of Mr. Kraft engaging in sex acts for money in two visits to a strip-mall massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla.He was one of two dozen men charged with soliciting prostitution at the massage parlor, which is about a 30-minute drive north of Palm Beach, where Mr. Kraft often visits. Their cases are part of a six-month investigation into what the police say is a human sex trafficking network operating out of nearly a dozen massage parlors in several counties in Florida.Prosecutors say that Mr. Kraft and the other men had no knowledge that the women working in the massage parlor had any connection to human sex trafficking. Still, the prosecutors increased the severity of the charges, from second-degree to first-degree misdemeanors, against Mr. Kraft and the other defendants.Prosecutors have said that first-time offenders like Mr. Kraft are unlikely to face jail time, but if convicted, they could face fines of up to $5,000 and 100 hours of community service.The court document offers instructions on obtaining a public defender, but Mr. Kraft is hardly likely to be in need of one.Though the case is a minor one by legal standards, Mr. Kraft has spared no expense, bringing in sought-after lawyers, including William A. Burck, who worked in the George W. Bush White House, and Jack Goldberger, who defended Jeffrey E. Epstein, the New York financier accused of trafficking underage girls for sex.A vigorous defense is unusual for a case of this kind. Most defendants take a plea deal, pay a fine and complete community service. They can later petition the court to expunge their record.Legals experts say that bringing in high-powered lawyers, especially ones from out of state, is unnecessary in misdemeanor cases like the one that Mr. Kraft is fighting. It is often more effective, they say, to hire lawyers who are familiar with state court judges and state attorneys, who are elected in Florida.“The problem with Kraft is the problem with famous people, which is they think if you bring in famous attorneys, they’ll do a better job,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., the son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a former prosecutor now in private practice. “In Florida, you don’t walk into state court with an out-of-town attorney. Who are you trying to impress?”Last week, Dave Aronberg, the state attorney overseeing the cases in Palm Beach County, said that all defendants would be treated equally, regardless of their wealth or fame.“Our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent,” Mr. Aronberg said last week. “No one gets special treatment in Palm Beach County.”Mr. Aronberg, a former assistant attorney general and a Florida state senator, is a Democrat who ran unopposed when he was re-elected in 2016.Mr. Kraft has long been associated with Democratic causes. But he is also close friends with President Trump, who has invited Mr. Kraft to fly on Air Force One and dine at his Palm Beach club, Mar-a-Lago.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinFacing a significant decline in the number of students playing high school football, the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association on Wednesday adopted new guidelines to sharply reduce the amount of contact allowed in practices and, in doing so, address concerns about player safety.The new rules, which the association said were the most restrictive in the country, limits the time that teams can engage in full-contact drills in practice to 15 minutes a week, down from the 90 allowed under the old rules. Preseason full-contact drills, previously unlimited, will be reduced to six total hours, including scrimmages.The existing ban on full contact in spring and summer practices in New Jersey remains in effect. New Jersey officials said that other states are considering similar restrictions as concerns about head injuries continue to grow.“I think this is a positive thing based on what we know now about player safety and the more education that we are all getting all the time about how to keep players healthy,” said Kevin Carty Jr., the coach at Hillsborough High School in central New Jersey.The New Jersey association said it implemented the rules on the recommendation of the New Jersey Football Coaches Association and Practice Like Pros, an organization that advocates the exact limits on practices that have now been adopted by New Jersey.Full contact is considered tackling that brings a player to the ground.Jesse Mez, an associate professor of neurology at Boston University and member of the school’s Alzheimer’s Center and CTE Center, applauded the new regulations. He said that there is “good evidence” to show a relationship between the dangers of repetitive impacts in football — and not just those involving concussions — and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative disease linked to repeated blows to the head. He said the exact nature of that relationship has not been fully measured.“I think there are better ways of playing team sports and getting exercise than repeatedly hitting your head,” Mez said. “But given the country’s interest in football and how much everybody loves it, if we are not going to stop playing, then we should reduce the amount of contact as much as we can.”Despite its risks, tackle football is still among the most popular sports for male youths from ages 14 to 17. But participation is falling, and particularly  in New Jersey, a state long known for being rich in high school football talent.In 2017, 1,700 fewer players were reported playing high school football in New Jersey than the year before, a 6.8 percent decrease. Only three states — Colorado, Montana and Oklahoma — lost players at a higher rate over the same period. Most attributed the decline to increased concerns about player safety.Carty, a past president of the executive board of the New Jersey coaches association, said that while the purpose of the new rules was to increase safety, they also could help slow the decline in participation. He said he and a number of other coaches in New Jersey had been following the guidelines announced Wednesday for the past few seasons. Now, they will apply to everyone.“We’re not doing this as a recruiting ploy,” he said. “It’s just we want to keep our kids safe and we want people to know this is happening. By making it a mandate statewide, it can ease the fears of a lot of parents that they won’t have to investigate that their coach is doing it the right way.”Other states moved to put new limits on out-of-game contact before New Jersey did. At least seven allow only 60 minutes of full-contact practice each week, and Texas has also worked to reduce head injuries by offering junior high school and high school coaches seminars on rugby tackling, where the focus is on leading with the shoulder instead of the head.The N.C.A.A. does not mandate limits for its college football teams, offering only recommendations. The various conferences set their own limits, ranging from the Pacific-12, which allows 90 minutes a week, to the Ivy League, which does not allow any full-contact training.The N.F.L. allows 14 padded practices during its 18-week regular season, and one practice per day for each day of preseason.Terry O’Neil, the founder of Practice Like Pros, said that his organization, which includes former N.F.L. players and coaches, neurosurgeons and orthopedists, is not concerned with participation levels. The goal is to promote the safety of those playing the game now. The approval of the New Jersey rules, he said, “is going to be very helpful for us in opening the conversation with other states around the country.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe effects of head trauma have gotten much of the attention, but huge weight gains have also damaged N.F.L. retirees. By Ken BelsonAn insidious scourge that has nothing to do with head trauma is ravaging retired N.F.L. players.In the past few decades, the N.F.L.’s emphasis on the passing game and quarterback protection has led teams to stock their offensive and defensive lines with ever-larger men, many of them weighing well over 300 pounds. But their great girth, which coaches encouraged and which helped turn some players into multimillion-dollar commodities, leaves many of them prone to obesity problems.In retirement, these huge men are often unable to lose the weight they needed to do their jobs. Without the structure of a team and the guidance of coaches for the first time in decades, many of them lose the motivation to stay in shape, or cannot even try, as damage to their feet, knees, backs and shoulders limits their ability to exercise. This is a big reason that former linemen, compared with other football players and the general population, have higher rates of hypertension, obesity and sleep apnea, which can lead to chronic fatigue, poor diet and even death. Blocking for a $25-million-a-year quarterback, it turns out, can put linemen in the high-risk category for many of the ailments health experts readily encourage people to avoid. “Linemen are bigger, and in today’s world, rightly or wrongly, they are told to bulk up,” said Henry Buchwald, a specialist in bariatric surgery at the University of Minnesota who works with the Living Heart Foundation, a nonprofit organization that provides free medical tests to former N.F.L. players. “Their eating habits are hard to shed when they stop playing, and when they get obese, they get exposed to diabetes, hypertension and cardiac problems.”Many linemen say they were encouraged by their high school and college coaches to gain weight to win scholarships and to be drafted by the N.F.L., where a lot of players were required to become even bigger. In some cases, players were converted from tight ends to down linemen, and needed extra weight to play the new position. Coaches often leave it up to the players to decide how to gain weight. Joe Thomas, an All-Pro lineman with the Cleveland Browns, said that as a freshman in college he ate every few hours to gain the 40 pounds he needed to get to 290 pounds. He gobbled burgers, frozen pizzas and large bowls of ice cream. “It was see food, eat food,” Thomas said.The Living Heart Foundation has examined several thousand former players since it was formed in 2001 with financial backing from the N.F.L. players’ union. About two-thirds of those players — not just linemen — had a body mass index above 30, which is considered moderately obese. A third of those screened were at 35 or above, or significantly obese. The index, which is viewed as a general indication of weight relative to size, does not take into account muscle mass. Linemen have been getting heavier, faster. From 1942 to 2011, they have gained an average of three-quarters of a pound to two pounds a year, about twice the average gain for all N.F.L. players, according to a study published in The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.Another study showed that the average weight of offensive linemen ballooned 27 percent, from 249 pounds in the 1970s to 315 pounds in the 2000s, as the passing game evolved. The consequences can be dire. A study published in The American Journal of Medicine found that for every 10 pounds football players gained from high school to college, or from college to the professional level, the risk of heart disease rose 14 percent compared with players whose weight changed little during the same period.Plenty of linemen do lose weight. The former linemen Matt Birk and Nick Hardwick shed dozens of pounds after retiring and publicized their achievement. Thomas, who retired last year after 11 seasons with the Browns, gained roughly 30 pounds after entering the N.F.L. He has since lost about 50 pounds by eating less and eating healthier.“I reversed everything I was doing,” said Thomas, who weighed about 320 pounds in the N.F.L. “No more freezer pizzas before bed. I dialed back the carbs, added whole grains, couscous, quinoa.”The N.F.L. and the players’ union, recognizing more must be done, offer retired players medical exams, health club memberships and other services. Dozens of retired players, for instance, get free health screenings at the Super Bowl.Still, many players are unreachable, said Archie Roberts, a former N.F.L. quarterback and retired heart surgeon who started the Living Heart Foundation. “If you don’t guide players through it, they won’t show up. If we can’t get them to follow through, they won’t get the health care they deserve.”Many former linemen said they woke to the dangers of being obese when the Hall of Famer Reggie White died in 2004 of cardiac arrhythmia. White also had sleep apnea.Linemen are prone to the affliction, in which a person’s breathing repeatedly stops and starts because the muscles in their neck press against the breathing passage as they sleep. This cuts off the flow of oxygen and wakes the player, often for a second or two. The continual sleep interruptions can make it difficult for those with sleep apnea to feel fully rested.Former linemen have big necks, and as they age their throat tissue becomes flabby, so their tongues can block their airways, said Anthony Scianni, a dentist who runs the Center for Dental Sleep Medicine, which works with former N.F.L. players.The lack of oxygen, Scianni said, stimulates the body to produce more sugars, which can cause Type 2 diabetes and lead to overeating and other problems.Derek Kennard, a guard for 11 seasons with the Cardinals, the Saints and the Cowboys, has battled to reverse this cycle. He snored so loudly — a common symptom of sleep apnea — that his roommate in his last season asked for a different room. After Kennard retired in 1996, the years of sleep deprivation led to other problems. He ate poorly and gained 100 pounds. He took Vicodin to deal with the pain of his football injuries. The pain, lack of sleep and extra weight made it difficult to exercise. His cholesterol levels and blood pressure jumped. He would fall asleep behind the wheel while stopped at traffic lights.“You’re not sleeping well, so your body is not healing itself,” said Kennard, whose son Devon is a linebacker for the Lions. After his brother died in 2009, Kennard, who is 6-foot-3 and whose weight peaked at 465 pounds, sought help. He was tested for sleep apnea and was told he woke 77 times per hour. One episode of not breathing lasted 1 minute 32 seconds. Because he flips in bed as he sleeps, Kennard had trouble wearing the mask of a CPAP machine, which delivers continuous positive airway pressure and is the standard treatment for sleep apnea. He switched to a mouthpiece that kept his airways open. He now wakes just twice an hour, and sleeps about seven hours a night. His weight fell to about 350 pounds, and he stopped taking painkillers.“A hundred pounds came off quickly because I had energy to do exercise,” he said at a conference for retired players in Phoenix, where he lives. Kennard urges other former players to be checked for sleep apnea, and tries to convince them that wearing a mask does not make them weak.“I had so much death in my life, I could see it in front of me,” he said.Vaughn Parker, a tackle who played 11 years, mostly with the Chargers, struggled with overeating, and after a dozen surgeries on his shoulders, ankles and triceps, he had a hard time exercising to shed weight. He also got busy. Parker invested in real estate in San Diego until the market collapsed in 2008. He had two children, split with his wife and studied for an M.B.A., which he finished in May 2017. The stress led him to eat more, and before he knew it, he had added 90 pounds to his 6-foot-3 frame and weighed more than 400 pounds. “Everyone has their cross to bear,” said Parker, 47, who also has high blood pressure. “For some people, it’s gambling or alcohol. For me, it’s food.”In 2013, Parker received a phone call from Aaron Taylor, a former teammate, who encouraged him to work out with other retired N.F.L. players who received free gym memberships from the Trust, a group started by the N.F.L. and the players’ union to assist retirees.Parker started driving 40 minutes to Carlsbad, north of San Diego, several times a week to EXOS, a high-end fitness club, where a trainer tailored workouts to his abilities and injuries. Afterward, the handful of former players discussed their progress and drank nutritional shakes. They learned about portion control and shopping for healthy food. Parker knew he had lost his best chance to become fit, which is right after retirement, but he tried to catch up. His workouts were exhausting, but he stuck with the program, in part driven by the camaraderie of the other ex-players, and shed nearly 100 pounds the first year. “There wasn’t a day I didn’t sit at the edge of my bed and say I’m not going today,” Parker said. Keeping the weight off has been a challenge. At home, he drinks protein shakes and eats made-to-order meals. But he also likes sugary drinks, and eating healthily on business trips has been tough. When he dines out with friends, he eats nachos, chicken wings and fried foods.But the prospect of cascading health problems motivates Parker to keep exercising. He recently re-enrolled in a six-week training program at EXOS.“How many 400-pound offensive linemen are walking around in their 50s?” he said.Linemen are not the only players who need to keep the pounds on to play their position. Tight ends and linebackers often do as well.That was true for Jimmie Giles, who because of his size and soft hands was one of the best blocking tight ends of his day. Nearly 30 years after he retired, Giles, who lives in Tampa, Fla., where he starred for the Buccaneers, checks in at roughly 350 pounds, about 100 pounds above his playing weight.After 13 years in the N.F.L., ending in 1989, he had done lasting damage to his back, knees and feet. He had regular headaches, the result of about a dozen concussions. When he retired he took up golf to stay in shape. But the effects of his football injuries added up, limiting his activity. He had four degenerative disks in his back and no feeling in his right leg, and he had sleep apnea. His inability to exercise exacerbated his problems.“It’s not like I gained 100 pounds right away,” he said.To relieve the pain in his back, Giles received five epidurals a year, an ordeal he gave up when he started taking painkillers. But they can be highly addictive and caused sluggishness.“That’s not living — that’s surviving,” Giles said in his family’s insurance office in Tampa.About two years ago, Giles quit taking painkillers. He now receives cortisone shots instead. He said he does not even take aspirin “because I want to know when I hurt.”“As long as I’m at a 5 out of 10 in terms of pain, I’m all right,” he added.Giles, though, has put off back surgery for as long as possible, wary of the side effects. Every six months or so, he also receives radio frequency epidurals to deaden the nerves in his left leg, where he suffers shooting pain. Giles’s father died from a heart attack, and his brother, who had congestive heart failure, is also dead. So Giles, who receives disability benefits from the N.F.L., regularly visits doctors to keep his high blood pressure and other vital signs in check.Losing weight has been difficult. He rode a bicycle until it affected his prostate. Now he swims for an hour several times a week. He tries to eat moderately, and he avoids sweets and breads.“It’s hard for him,” his wife, Vivian, said. “It’s not the food — it’s the injuries.”When David Lewis played linebacker in the 1970s and early 1980s, he was 6-foot-4 and weighed 236 pounds. Like many other players, he was pushed out of the game by injuries.“I’ve had sprains, broken knuckles, hyperextended elbows, nerve problems in my neck, shoulders,” Lewis, 64, said. “I’d be guessing how much concussions I had.”By about 40, he was receiving disability payments, and he has qualified for the 88 Plan, a league and union benefit that pays for medical care for players with dementia, including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. Unable to run or exert himself much, he now weighs about 300 pounds.“As time went on, all the sickness started to add up,” he said.The sickness includes Type 2 diabetes, a kidney ailment and a congested heart from hypertension. He receives iron transfusions to correct a deficiency. He takes a half-dozen pills each day.Aside from taking medicine, combating those problems has not been easy. Lewis said he needed a knee replacement which should allow him to exercise more. But he said he could not have the surgery because of his heart condition.He goes to a Y.M.C.A. to walk on the treadmill and ride a stationary bicycle. He has also tried to eat healthier, like dropping sausages in favor of oatmeal, egg whites and fruit.This has helped him lose about 30 pounds this year and ease the stress on his knees and back.Lewis knows he has to keep moving. Metabolically, the more weight you have, the harder it is to lose weight because the fat cells replicate, said Rudi Ferrate, a doctor who helps players with sleep apnea. “We’re designed to store energy,” he said.Willie Roaf knew it was time to retire in 2005. After 13 years at left tackle with the Saints and the Chiefs, he was destined for the Pro Football Hall of Fame, which he entered in 2012. Many of the 189 games he played were on unforgiving turf, and his body was breaking down.Roaf, 48, tore his hamstring and had back and knee injuries, episodes of gout, a staph infection and periodic lymphatic swelling in his leg. Prediabetic, meaning his blood glucose levels were higher than normal, he was determined to keep his weight down and went to the gym after he retired. He weighed about 320 pounds, similar to during his playing career.But within a few years, he became less mobile. Doctors told him he had spinal stenosis, a narrowing of the spinal canal. In 2013, a doctor told him he had the back of a 70-year-old. He had surgery to relieve pressure on the sciatic nerves. He wanted to keep the pounds off, but working out was difficult.“I can’t do anything more than stretching,” he said in his Florida kitchen. He takes medicine to prevent gout and to regulate his blood pressure, cholesterol, arthritis and uric acid.His mobility has increased, and he has returned to the gym, where he does 30 minutes on the treadmill or elliptical machine several times a week. He takes about 7,000 steps a day, which he monitors with a Fitbit. He competes with friends to see who can walk the most. He tries to drink smoothies, eat fewer sweets and take vitamins.“The more I move around, the better my numbers,” Roaf said. Still, his injuries limit how much he can do, which has made it hard for him to lose 50 pounds to reach his target of 300 pounds.“If it’s a bad day, I’ll just sit in the recliner and not go anywhere,” he said.At the end of an hourlong conversation, Roaf’s Fitbit buzzed to remind him to get up and move. He got out of his chair, walked to a couch in the living room and sat again. The gym would have to wait.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the average weight of offensive linemen in the 1970s. It was 249 pounds, not 240.Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaLONDON — The diplomatic standoff between Qatar and its Arab neighbors spilled into the sports world once again Thursday as a Qatari vice president of Asia’s soccer confederation was barred from traveling to the United Arab Emirates ahead of the region’s top tournament.Saoud al-Mohannadi, vice president of the Asian Football Confederation, was denied permission to travel from Oman to the U.A.E. after airport officials said he wouldn’t be let into the country. The U.A.E., with Saudi Arabia and a handful of other Mideast countries, broke diplomatic relations and severed all ties with Qatar in 2017.Mohannadi is the chairman of the A.F.C.’s competitions committee, a group with overall responsibility for the Asian Cup. Prohibiting him from traveling to the U.A.E. is the first sign that long-simmering political tensions in the Gulf are likely to have ramifications for continent’s biggest tournament.Mohannadi immediately wrote a letter of complaint to Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa, the Bahraini royal who is the A.F.C.’s current president. The organization said in a statement that it was aware of reports that Mohannadi was being denied the right to travel and that it would investigate. The A.F.C. said it had been “assured of visas and entry permits” for tournament organizing committee members and executives.The Saudi-led diplomatic dispute with Qatar included the suspension of flights between Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, as well as several other countries. Only recently have Qatari citizens been allowed to apply for permission to travel between the two countries. Such travel typically requires a visa and an approval letter from local authorities.Mohannadi, who in 2017 successfully managed to overturn a one-year FIFA ethics ban, had applied to enter the U.A.E. Local organizers told him he could travel there even though he had not received official clearance, according to people familiar with the matter. He traveled from Doha to Muscat, Oman’s capital, where he was told his clearance was not registered.The soccer federation in Qatar, which will host the World Cup in 2022, said in a statement that it had reached out to the A.F.C. about the matter. “We will comment further once we have an official response on the incident,” the federation said.The diplomatic dispute, which exploded in the spring of 2017, has already impacted regional sports. Players and officials on teams from countries opposed to Qatar initially refused to speak to beIN Sports, the Qatari-owned network that owns the rights to the A.F.C.’s events. For much of the past year, BeoutQ, a bootlegging television network, has been unimpeded in broadcasting pirated beIN Sports events using a satellite operator based in Saudi Arabia.BeoutQ was launched in response to the governments of Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. blocking the sale of beIN Sports as part of a blockade that has closed off air and sea access between the countries.Mohannadi’s travel plans are unlikely to be the last flashpoint in the 24-team tournament that kicks off on Saturday. The draw, made in May, set up a match between foes Qatar and Saudi Arabia on Jan. 17. It’s unlikely many, if any, Qatari supporters will make the trip to Abu Dhabi.“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”Mohannadi is one of two candidates who will be challenging Sheikh Salman for the A.F.C.’s presidency later this year. The other candidate is Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi, a sports official from the U.A.E.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Danya IssawiThe search for love is back on in “The Bachelor,” and feel that high school nostalgia during “Friday Night Lights.”THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC. Colton Underwood, the former NFL football player and Season 14 “Bachelorette” contestant, returns to reality TV once more to try to find love. During the 23rd-season premiere of this show, which has captivated many and caused books to be written about its scope and power, Colton meets the 30 contenders after his heart. They include Miss Alabama 2018 and one contestant who brings, and momentarily leaves behind, her 10-year-old pet Pomeranian.COLLEGE FOOTBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 8 p.m. on ESPN.  Alabama, with a 14-0 record, takes on Clemson, also 14-0, for the national title. This is the fourth year these teams are meeting in the College Football Playoff, and the third time in those four years that the two go head-to-head for the championship.AMERICA’S GOT TALENT: THE CHAMPIONS 8 p.m. on NBC. The judges Simon Cowell, Mel B, Heidi Klum and Howie Mandel return, and the new host, Terry Crews, arrives, in this series premiere. The show features the most notable contestants and acts from past seasons and other iterations of “America’s Got Talent,” bringing them together to compete for the title of world champion. Fifty acts will return to the stage, including the 2009 runner-up Susan Boyle; the knife-throwing act Deadly Games, a 2016 semifinalist; and the ventriloquist Darci Lynne Farmer, the 2017 winner.LOVE ACTUALLY (2003) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Hulu and Vudu. Although Christmas is over, it’s hard to wean yourself from holiday movies. Now that Valentine’s Day is approaching, a Christmas-themed film about love might help you get ready for February’s celebration. With a star-studded cast — Liam Neeson, Alan Rickman, Colin Firth, Emma Thompson, Hugh Grant and Keira Knightley, among others — the film follows several intertwining love stories, including that of a prime minister who falls for a young staffer, and one about a marriage on the brink and plagued by infidelity. Despite a few questionable subplots involving a young woman and a much older man in a position of power, which prompted the critic A. O. Scott to label the movie’s portrayal of love “shallow and dishonest” in The New York Times, the feature remains a cult classic and even received an unorthodox 15-minute sequel nearly 15 years later.FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS (2004) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Hulu and Vudu. In this film, based on H. G. Bissinger’s 1990 nonfiction book, the director Peter Berg brings the small town of Odessa, Tex., where football reigns, to the screen. Here, the game takes precedence over everything, rivaling religion. Inspired by the Permian High Panthers’ 1988 season, the movie offers glimpses into the personal lives of the boys tasked with upholding their town’s honor, like the star quarterback, Mike Winchell (Lucas Black), and Don Billingsley (Garrett Hedlund), who is the victim of an abusive father (Tim McGraw). The players, as well as their coach (Billy Bob Thornton), must learn to navigate the pressures of being hometown heroes. Berg went on to create a television series of the same title, writing and directing its pilot episode.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy Engle Before reading the article: With the Super Bowl approaching, it’s a good time to appreciate the athletic prowess of N.F.L. athletes.Watch the three videos of one-handed catches featured in the article.Which catch do you think was the best or most impressive, and why?Now, read the article, “Grab and Go: How Sticky Gloves Have Changed Football,” and answer the following questions: 1. The article begins, “One of the most infamous dropped passes in football history clanged off Dallas Cowboys tight end Jackie Smith as he lay in the end zone during Super Bowl XIII.” Why did David Waldstein, the author, choose a play from 40 years ago to open the piece? Why does he suggest that Smith’s fortune might have been different if he were playing football today?2. Mr. Waldstein writes: “When a catch is made, the naked eye often sees only hands grabbing a ball. But what is happening on the palms of a receiver’s gloves is far more complex.” In your own words, explain the science involved when a player catches a ball while wearing silicone gloves.3. What properties of the silicone glove are most surprising or interesting to you? How does Mr. Waldstein help the reader visualize how the gloves work on a microscopic level?4. How did Anette Hosoi, a co-director of the M.I.T. Sports Lab and an associate dean of engineering at M.I.T., test the gloves to determine how much “tackiness” they provide for users? How much stickier is the glove than a human hand?5. Jeff Beraznik first had the idea of a sticky football glove as a football player at the University of Ottawa. How did his pursuit of the perfect glove lead him to Karachi, Pakistan? What does his story tell you about the nature of innovation?6. Why was Stickum, an earlier product used by wide receivers, outlawed by the N.F.L.? How do silicone gloves meet the criteria of the current rule book?7. Odell Beckham Jr. is widely seen as the master of the one-handed catch. How has he influenced other receivers playing the game? How has the one-handed catch changed football?Finally, tell us more about what you think: — What’s your reaction to the article? Are you more or less impressed by the athletic prowess of N.F.L. wide receivers?— According to the article:The technological advances on the skin of those gloves have been so profound that they now enable receivers to snare passes their forebears never dreamed of catching, and in making the seemingly impossible possible, they may be changing the way football is played.Do you think athletes should be able to use technology to improve their performance? Or do you think they give some athletes an unfair advantage? Does advanced equipment diminish or strengthen individuals’ talent and the sport over all? Why do you think so?— If you do think technology is acceptable in sports, should there be limits on the amount or type of equipment that athletes can use? Is there any advancement that could be considered “going too far” or cheating? Is it all fair game? Why?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonThe number of minority coaches in the N.F.L. is likely to fall by half next season, suggesting that the league’s recent efforts to promote diversity in hiring are still a work in progress.Two weeks after the end of the regular season, nearly every new head coach hired has been white, which is certain to reignite the debate over whether a league in which roughly three-quarters of the players are black is doing enough to promote people of color into positions of power.This season, there were eight minority coaches, tied for the most ever. Yet among eight coaches who have lost their jobs, including those fired midseason, five were black, leaving just three minority coaches — two black and one Latino — among the 32 coaches in the league.Thus far, six out of the seven coaches hired by teams have been white.The sudden reversal of fortune for minority coaches comes after the 32 N.F.L. owners announced in December that they were strengthening rules that obligate teams to consider minority candidates when hiring coaches and executives.At the time, the league denied that it amended the so-called Rooney Rule, named for Dan Rooney, the late owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who championed its creation in 2003, because it was not effective enough. The rule requires teams to interview at least one minority candidate in their searches for new coaches.The N.F.L. declined to comment on coaches hired this month.With such a small sample size, big fluctuations can happen when a handful of teams have down years. The sudden decline in the number of coaches may look startling, but Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida, said that number is bound to rise again.Lapchick noted that there were a record eight minority coaches in 2011 before the total declined only to have it return to a record eight coaches last year.“You can’t not notice when that number of black coaches gets fired,” he said. But he added that it was “a part of the natural cycle” of coaches getting fired and hired. “I definitely think it has a chance to go up.”Lapchick, who compiles a “Racial and Gender Report Card” on the N.F.L. and other professional sports leagues, said having eight minority coaches in a 32-team league, is reasonable. Rather than comparing the percentage of minority coaches to the number of minority players, he uses the percentage of people of color in the entire country as a benchmark.Cyrus Mehri, the co-founder of the Fritz Pollard Alliance, which helped establish the Rooney Rule and monitors its implementation, said his group cannot tell teams which coach to hire. Rather, the key is ensuring that teams give minority candidates an equal shot at obtaining a job, and this year, every team with an opening has followed the rules and interviewed at least one and sometimes several minority candidates.“You don’t overcome decades of history just by snapping your finger, but we have to say the process was fully followed this year,” he said.Mehri is focused on strengthening the pipeline of minorities in junior coaching jobs so the pool of candidates for head coaching spots deepens. He noted the percentage of minority offensive coordinators and quarterback coaches is still low. Minorities account for roughly 30 percent of N.F.L. assistants.“We think the league has a lot of work to do,” he said, though “in the long run, we’re feeling good where things are, and what’s been accomplished.”Still, the league has been criticized by advocates and former coaches, who have said teams have been skirting the rules.Last year, it was not clear that the Oakland Raiders conducted any good faith interviews with minority candidates for their vacancy at coach before they ultimately hired Jon Gruden, who is white.Now that teams have started to fill their coaching vacancies this year, the number of minority coaches may fall by half.The Arizona Cardinals replaced Steve Wilks, who is black, with Kliff Kingsbury, a college coach. The Green Bay Packers followed by choosing Matt LaFleur as their coach, while the Tampa Buccaneers hired Bruce Arians to replace Dirk Koetter. All three new coaches are white.The Cleveland Browns followed by hiring Freddie Kitchens, a positions coach with the team who is white. He replaced Hue Jackson, who is black and was fired during the season.Also last week, the Denver Broncos replaced Vance Joseph, who is black, with Vic Fangio, a longtime defensive coordinator, who is white.And on Monday, the Jets hired Adam Gase, who had been fired by the Miami Dolphins, to take over the team’s top spot. Gase, who is white, replaced Todd Bowles, who is black.The Cincinnati Bengals, who fired longtime coach Marvin Lewis, who is black, are reportedly considering hiring Zac Taylor, who is white.Thus far, the lone exception has been the Dolphins, who are expected to sign Brian Flores, the linebacker coach of the New England Patriots, once his team is eliminated from the playoffs.If Flores is hired, he would join Anthony Lynn of the Los Angeles Chargers, Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers and Ron Rivera of the Carolina Panthers as the only minority coaches.There are only a handful of minority general managers as well. Reggie McKenzie, who was named the N.F.L. executive of the year in 2016, was fired midseason by the Oakland Raiders, where he was the chief football executive. Ozzie Newsome, the first African-American general manager in league history, retired after working with the Ravens since they arrived in Baltimore in 1996.To be sure, coaches are hired and fired for many reasons, including most of all, success on the field. For instance, Joseph was 11-21 in his two seasons in Denver, while Wilks was 3-13 in his one season with the Cardinals.Teams also change strategic directions, and are increasingly looking for offensive-minded coaches to match the success of high-scoring teams in Los Angeles and Kansas City.Some black coaches also get other jobs elsewhere. Bowles, for instance, was quickly hired as the defensive coordinator in Tampa.Still, the N.F.L., where nearly every owner and many top team executives are white, has battled the perception it does not do enough to promote minorities.Under the new regulations enacted in December, teams looking to fill positions must interview at least one minority candidate from a list kept by the league’s Career Development Advisory Panel, or a minority candidate not currently working with a team. Teams also must keep detailed records of who they interview, which is perhaps a response to criticism from minority candidates who say they are routinely called, but not formally interviewed, by teams trying to do the least possible to fulfill their obligations.After it was first established in 2003, the Rooney Rule appeared to be having an impact. By 2011, eight N.F.L. teams had coaches of color, the most to that point, or since.Now, it looks like the league has taken a step back, with the number of minority coaches expected to fall to just four.AdvertisementPeter Frankopan says new volume is a snapshot of what is going on right now.Oxford University historian Peter Frankopan has recently had to live down being placed in the same category as great authors such as Jane Austen and F. Scott Fitzgerald.Frankopan’s best-selling 2015 book, The Silk Roads: A New History of the World, was chosen in December as one of the 25 most influential books to be translated into Chinese over the past 40 years by Amazon China alongside Pride and Prejudice and The Great Gatsby.“It was a poll with some 20,000 respondents. I nearly fell off my chair to be mentioned in the same breath as these authors,” he said.Frankopan, who was speaking over morning coffee at the Rooftop Restaurant of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, is still coming to terms with the success of his first book.Previously laboring away in what might seem the obscure field of Byzantine history, Frankopan has written a history of the ancient Silk Road network that connected Europe, Central Asia and China that has coincided with a renewal of interest in these links and was an international best-seller.“It went viral and global very quickly. It was published in Chinese at the beginning of 2016 and I was very lucky, timing wise, since it also coincided with even greater interest in China’s Belt and Road Initiative,” he said.Frankopan is now back where the other book left off with a new volume, The New Silk Roads: The Present and Future of the World, which was released in November.Whereas the previous book was an epic history spanning millennia, the new one is much more journalistic, taking in events as recent as the Forum on China Africa Cooperation meeting in Beijing in September and the ongoing trade conflict between the United States and China.Like the first, however, it is superbly researched, bringing in everyday examples such as the ownership of football clubs and Bordeaux vineyards to illustrate a more complex connected world.“I initially set out to write a new up-to-date chapter for the first book but soon realized it would be better to try a shorter book that was a bit more journalistic,” he said.“I wanted to explain the Belt and Road (Initiative). I also wanted to look at countries like India, Pakistan, Iran and Russia. These are big second-tier countries, which have large populations and are quite big militarily. They are not superpowers yet but may well turn out to be that.”Frankopan said his approach is to join the dots that others do not tend to do when looking at the countries on this important axis.“We don’t tend to look at different parts of the world and how they are linked and the implications of that,” he said.“This book is a sort of snapshot of what is going on right now and is particularly useful for policymakers and journalists who don’t always actually look at these connections.”One of the biggest connectors is China’s Belt and Road Initiative, launched by President Xi Jinping in 2013, and which is one of the central focuses of the new book.The second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation is set to be held in China in April and already $1 trillion has been committed to 1,000 projects since the initiative was launched.“Five years is not a great period of time in historical terms to assess it. The key test will not be whether infrastructure projects look good but whether they can actually significantly improve the G.D.P. and productivity of China’s neighbors,” he said.In the book, Frankopan quotes Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen as saying: “Other countries have lots of ideas but no money. But for China when it comes with an idea it also comes with the money.”“I think he is right,” said Frankopan.“These projects, for the large part, do have the capability to raise living standards and do the kind of things that large-scale international development does.”At one point Frankopan contrasts the Belt and Road Initiative with the Northern Powerhouse, a British government initiative to improve infrastructure in the north of England, which was launched at the same time. Its main achievement, according to Frankopan, seems to be just a new second entrance to Leeds railway station.“Yes, that is right. There is a different scale of ambition. Belt and Road (Initiative) has had some criticism for lacking definition. As a historian I quite like that because many things in history are open to interpretation. Belt and Road (Initiative) is not saying here is a highway and this counts as being part of the belt and this other one doesn’t. The fact that it is abstract, inclusive and adaptable seems to be quite a good thing.”Although British, Frankopan, 47, also has a distinction of being a Croatian prince due to his Dalmatian ancestry.He was educated at Eton College, the top British public school, and initially read Russian at Jesus College, Cambridge, before eventually specializing in Byzantine history.In 2016, following the success of his book, he was given the impressive and somewhat portentous title of professor of global history at Oxford University.“I was giving a talk in Vienna and the translator got a bit carried away and I was referred to as the ‘professor of universal history’ when I got up to speak, which made me feel as though I had nowhere else to go,” he said, laughing.“All it really means is that I am director of the Oxford Centre for Byzantine Research here but it is global in the sense that if you work on the history of Constantinople or Baghdad, you can’t do it without looking at China, Russia, Africa and so on.“Global history is highly recognizable to a Byzantine historian because it is important to understand plural and different systems which are often thousands of miles apart, and then to try and work out how they configure together,” he adds.Frankopan is also an accomplished linguist but despite his increasing interest in China, he has yet to take on Chinese.“I am sort of thinking I might be too old. I can get (in terms of languages) from Portugal to more or less the Himalayas with a few gaps here and there. I can’t read Hungarian, for example.“I wouldn’t necessarily want to be interviewed on TV in all of them (languages) but reading newspapers is not a problem. People in England think that speaking foreign languages is a miracle and that you have to be really clever, which I think is great. I am very lucky they think like that.”One aspect the book touches upon is Brexit, which in some respects is a breakage in the links in the new connected world.“It is very hard to know what is going to happen. I don’t like change as a historian. I also don’t like volatility because it produces unpredictability and unforeseen consequences. I think the solution we’ll get will weaken the European Union and will weaken the U.K. significantly,” he said.Frankopan said what he wanted to demonstrate in the book was how cities on the new silk roads are no longer backwaters.“If you want to see the best art in the world then the Louvre in Abu Dhabi and the Museum of Islamic Art in Doha are hard to beat,” he said.“You have only to look at the ownership of football teams, with many of them coming from China, Russia or the Gulf, to see that the center of gravity of the world is shifting eastward,” he adds.Frankopan said many people in Asia now have a sense that “tomorrow will be better than today,” something no longer felt in the West.“According to the Gini coefficient (which measures inequality in societies), if you are born in Kazakhstan or Sierra Leone in the bottom 20 percent, you have a better chance of getting out than if you are born in the U.S. and the U.K.,” he said.“No one here in Europe thinks that in 10 years’ time we are going to be significantly richer than we are.”Frankopan said China is aware the world is changing.“They (China) are preparing themselves for a more open outlook on the world. Like in any relationship a lot depends on developing a communication where you talk as well as listen. We are not very good at listening here in the U.K. or in Europe right now.”Andrew MoodyAdvertisementSupported byBy Sapna MaheshwariSuper Bowl Sunday is the day when the advertising industry is not only tolerated but celebrated. And as in years past, brands paid millions of dollars this year for the opportunity to make consumers laugh, cry and reach for their wallets.The advertisers for Super Bowl LIII seemed determined to steer clear of controversy for a second year after politically tinged spots stole the show in 2017.Instead, they offered commercials that championed women, looked to the future and also inspired nostalgia for the ’90s — accompanied, of course, by a parade of celebrities. Cameos included Serena Williams, Jason Bateman, Cardi B and the Backstreet Boys. There was a surprise mash-up between Bud Light and HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” and Burger King relied on vintage footage of Andy Warhol eating a Whopper for its Super Bowl moment.[Follow along with live updates and analysis from Mercedes-Benz Stadium.]“It seems like there’s an awful lot of humor and light appeals, and that for advertisers it’s somewhat of a play-it-safe year,” said Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business. “We’re not hearing about anything crossing over in politics.”Wendy Clark, the chief executive of the agency DDB Worldwide, said that it was hard for ads to break through during a quiet game, describing the array as something of a “mishmash.”“I kind of look at some of these and think, some of them are just fine ads — I’m just not sure they’re Super Bowl ads,” Ms. Clark said. “People have perhaps forgotten that yes, you’ve got all these eyes and attention, but there is still competition for people being around you and talking to you and food and drink and the game itself.”The talk about trouble for the TV business has never extended to the Super Bowl, where the average cost of a 30-second spot climbed to a cool $5.2 million last year, according to Kantar Media. It is roughly the same this year. That figure rose by 96 percent in the previous decade, while the average rate for other prime-time ads fell by 12 percent, according to the firm. More than 100 million people were expected to watch the CBS telecast.Bud Light ran two spots that got people talking, both featuring its medieval cast of characters.One began with a joust and allowed “Game of Thrones” characters, including a dragon, to hijack the spot, ultimately advertising both Bud Light and the final season of the much-loved HBO show, which starts on April 14. (Ultimately, fans might be thirstier for the show than the beer.) The spot tapped into the same show enthusiasm that Doritos harnessed last year with an ad that featured Morgan Freeman and Peter Dinklage.“If you look at Bud Light, they’ve been in this medieval world, so it’s smart on their part to try to get at the love of ‘Game of Thrones,’” said Liz Taylor, chief creative officer of the agency FCB’s Chicago office. But it’s an uncommon type of collaboration, she said.Ms. Clark of DDB said, “No one saw that coming as a ‘Game of Thrones’ ad, and I thought it was a fantastic and very brave pair-up.”The agency Droga5, which collaborated with Bud Light’s agency, Wieden+Kennedy, said that more than 25 people from the show’s crew worked on the ad. That included David Nutter, who has directed several of notable “Game of Thrones” episodes. The agencies sought to mimic the unexpected twists from the show by killing off the Bud Knight.Chris Spadaccini, HBO’s head of marketing, said the network was looking for a “partner that would be willing to make a bold sacrifice ‘for the throne.’”Earlier, Bud Light ran a commercial that showed its characters receiving a shipment of corn syrup, supposedly meant for either Miller Lite or Coors Light. MillerCoors quickly responded, saying that none of its products contain “any high fructose corn syrup” and that a number of Anheuser-Busch items do. The National Corn Growers Association also expressed disappointment with the company on Twitter.“It was interesting they went for a broad brand play there and actually attacked their competitors,” said Jon Haber, co-founder of the ad agency Giant Spoon. “They did it in a funny and cute way.” The aim seemed to be to “put that little seed of doubt in there” for consumers in stores, who are deciding between the three brands, he said.“Pepsi and Coke have done it to each other for years,” Mr. Haber said of the jab. “It’s a tried-and-true tradition.”TurboTax ran a spot featuring a disconcerting character named “RoboChild,” who was told that he could not work at the company when he grew up. Walmart showed an array of futuristic cars from movies and TV shows to promote online ordering and pickup. Ads for Mercedes and Pringles used voice assistants, and robots appeared in an ad for Michelob Ultra.“It’s finally the Super Bowl where the message is more about the future than anything else,” said Mr. Haber of Giant Spoon. “Everyone’s showing their digital transformation capabilities.”Ms. Taylor of FCB said, “That’s kind of the cultural moment that people are tapping into — A.I. and robots and tech.”Derek Rucker, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, said that as advertisers played it safe regarding political messages, they seemed to be relying on technology as a way to safely incorporate modern culture into their commercials.“That theme is very present — I can’t remember a Super Bowl that did it at this level,” he said. “That could go hand-in-hand — where people want to be creative but don’t want to be in any dangerous territory.”Ms. Taylor was left feeling slightly underwhelmed.“Last year, the ads were really fun and took the pulse of the country and brands used their media time to bring a sense of hope and inspiration,” she said. “That’s what I’m missing so far.”Microsoft aired a tear-jerker in the second half, with a spot that showcased a group of children with physical limitations talking about how they love gaming, and are able to play video games through Xbox adaptive controllers. “No matter how your body is, or how fast you are, you can play,” one of the boys said in an online version of the spot.Tech giants loomed large. That includes Amazon, which had a Super Bowl ad for the fourth time.Amazon showed a trailer for a new show called “Hanna” on its Prime streaming service and another ad for its Alexa devices. The latter included celebrities like Harrison Ford, Forest Whitaker and the “Broad City” stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson.Amazon, which ran its first Super Bowl ad in 2016, has become a big presence as its overall marketing spending has increased. Last year, the company was one of the game’s five biggest advertisers for the first time, according to Kantar, on a list that included Anheuser-Busch, Fiat Chrysler, Toyota and Procter & Gamble.Last year, Amazon raised its ad spending in the United States by about 73 percent, Kantar said, outspending companies like General Motors, Verizon and L’Oréal.“Their presence makes a lot of sense to me,” Professor Rucker said. “Their target is probably a massive portion of everyone watching.”On a somewhat related note, The Washington Post made a last-minute decision to run a spot — a first for the newspaper. The ad, which ran in the fourth quarter and was narrated by Tom Hanks, highlighted “reporters’ work and the importance of press freedom,” Fred Ryan, the newspaper’s publisher, said in a statement.It showed images of journalists from several news organizations, including CNN and Fox News, and referred to the death of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi dissident journalist who wrote for the newspaper before he was killed in October. It closed with the paper’s motto, “Democracy Dies in Darkness.” The Post is owned by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive.Did you love “I Know What You Did Last Summer”? How about the Backstreet Boys? “Sex and the City”?Who knew a night of football could bring all of that back!The Backstreet Boys — whose oldest member is only a few years away from 50 — joined Chance the Rapper for a Doritos commercial that remixed the group’s song “I Want It That Way.” Sarah Jessica Parker took a turn as the cocktail-loving Carrie Bradshaw in an ad for Stella Artois, which also featured Jeff Bridges as the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Sarah Michelle Gellar appeared in a spot that reprised “I Know What You Did Last Summer” to sell Olay skin cream. And the actress Christina Applegate, known for the sitcom “Married With Children,” appeared in an ad for M&Ms.“There’s a lot of cross-generational appeal with the Backstreet Boys,” said Jennifer Saenz, chief marketing officer of Frito-Lay North America, which is owned by PepsiCo. “They were relevant a decade ago and still relevant today.”In the Super Bowl host city, Pepsi erected billboards and put out recycling bins while “trying to paint Atlanta blue,” according to Greg Lyons, chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit. The city is home to Coca-Cola, but Pepsi’s signage sought to remind people that its brand was the “official soft drink of Super Bowl LIII.”Bumble, the dating app that requires women to message potential matches first, ran its first Super Bowl ad, which featured the tennis star Serena Williams urging women to “make the first move” in all areas of their lives. Toyota’s commercial chronicled the unexpected path of a football player named Antoinette Harris, and compared her journey to one of its vehicles, which it said “will shatter perceptions.”“The female empowerment theme this year is very real,” Professor Taylor said. “That doesn’t mean it’s overwhelming — there’s still more ads with male lead characters and still more male celebrities — but I think it’s narrowed a little bit.”“I haven’t seen any ads that objectify women, which is awesome,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners.“Over all, the gap is narrowing,” she said. “We’re moving in the right direction.”Advertisers largely seemed to be avoiding anything remotely controversial — perhaps seeking to learn from years past.Last year, Ram trucks faced criticism  after it used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for its Super Bowl ad. The timing didn’t help, considering one story line last season was about N.F.L. players who sat or knelt during the national anthem to draw attention to racial oppression and police brutality against black Americans.Two years ago, after the presidential election, Airbnb and 84 Lumber ran spots that were viewed as responses to President Trump’s stance on immigration.This year, advertisers sought to tie themselves to social causes. Budweiser, for example, highlighted its efforts in renewable energy in a spot that featured a charming dog, the beverage company’s Clydesdales and the Bob Dylan song “Blowin’ in the Wind.” And Verizon, for a second year, put a spotlight on emergency workers.One brand appeared to seek attention by creating an ad it claimed was too racy for CBS — a tried-and-true strategy for many previous advertisers. Devour, a maker of frozen meals, riffed on the concept of “food porn” for its spot, with a girlfriend discussing her boyfriend’s addiction to tantalizing footage of frozen food. Ultimately, Devour released a more saucy version of its ad online and one that was deemed appropriate for television.Still, the family-approved version may lead to some questions from the children in the room.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Benjamin HoffmanThe Arizona Cardinals hired Kliff Kingsbury as their new head coach, becoming the latest team to bet on a high-flying offense to bring them success.Kingsbury, a former head coach at Texas Tech and a proponent of the air raid offense, has worked with Patrick Mahomes, Baker Mayfield, Johnny Manziel, Case Keenum and other quarterbacks during his time as a college coach, which included stops at Texas A&M and Houston. Kingsbury’s arrival comes just days after the Cardinals cut ties with Steve Wilks, a defensive-minded coach who was fired after just one season.The Cardinals, who handed the starting job to the rookie quarterback Josh Rosen in Week 4, had a league-worst record of 3-13, and scored just 225 points, the least in the league.Kingsbury, who signed a four-year contract according to multiple news media reports, will be expected to replicate the success that Coach Sean McVay had with the Los Angeles Rams in a similar situation: a young offensive coach being paired with a promising young quarterback (for the Rams, that player was Jared Goff). The Cardinals’ announcement of Kingsbury’s hiring went as far as pointing out that Kingsbury and McVay are friends.As for Kingsbury, he made it clear that he knows what is expected of him, and that he believes he is a good fit with Rosen and the Cardinals.“With the offensive trends these days, it felt like perfect time to be here,” Kingsbury said in an interview with the Cardinals’ website.Kingsbury, who was fired by Texas Tech in November after a disappointing season, initially agreed to join Clay Helton’s staff at Southern California as offensive coordinator, but now he will try to continue the trend of bringing modern college offenses to the pro level. Kingsbury’s Red Raiders went just 35-40 over six seasons, but at its peak in 2015, Kingsbury’s offense averaged 45.1 points a game.The Cardinals were the first of eight teams with head coaching vacancies to officially fill the position, but the Green Bay Packers announced later Tuesday that they had hired Matt LaFleur in an apparent attempt at finding their own McVay-esque magic.LaFleur, who most recently was the offensive coordinator of the Tennessee Titans, also served as McVay’s offensive coordinator in 2017 before joining the Titans in that role for 2018 — a move spurred by his desire to call his own plays. He was quarterbacks coach in Atlanta before joining the Rams.The 32-year-old McVay seemed excited for LaFleur but also amused, telling reporters on Tuesday when the move had been reported, “I’m too young to have a coaching tree.”For all the emphasis on young, offensive-minded coaches, older coaches with experience are not completely out of style. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers appear to be taking that strategy, announcing on Tuesday that they had hired Bruce Arians, the 66-year-old former coach of the Cardinals, as their new head coach.In December, the N.F.L. strengthened its rules requiring teams to interview minority candidates for top coaching and front office positions. The league’s commitment to hiring more minority coaches and executives is under renewed scrutiny because five of the eight coaches who were fired this season were black.All three of the expected new coaches — Kingsbury, LaFleur and Arians — are white.Five other teams — the Bengals, Broncos, Browns, Dolphins and Jets — remain in the market for a new head coach.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunAfter a 4-12 season, the Jets were expected to overhaul their staff. But few expected the team to land perhaps the most controversial figure in the N.F.L. coaching ranks.Enter Gregg Williams, the Jets’ new defensive coordinator, whose credentials include a Super Bowl ring with the New Orleans Saints in 2009; a surprisingly positive run as the interim coach of the Cleveland Browns this season; and, not to be forgotten, a role as the face of one of the ugliest scandals to tarnish the image of the N.F.L. in the last decade.For the Jets, mired in one of their trademark periods of borderline irrelevance, he has been brought in to reform an undisciplined defense and counterbalance Adam Gase, the newly hired coach, who at 40 is one of the league’s youngest, most innovative offensive minds.Williams’s reputation as a firebrand, however, carries significant risks for a franchise frequently plagued by off-field distraction.Williams was at the heart of the scandal known as Bountygate, in which the Saints, with Williams as ringleader, offered payouts to players who injured opponents, according to a league investigation. The scandal resulted in plenty of hand-wringing over the sport’s relationship with brutality when it was trying to convince the public that it was taking seriously the mounting concerns about head injuries.In March 2012, Williams received an indefinite suspension, the harshest of the penalties doled out, which included a one-year suspension for Saints Coach Sean Payton. Williams was reinstated in 2013.In the years since, Williams, 60, has worked his way back into the defensive coordinator role seemingly without having lost much of his brashness or bravado. On HBO’s “Hard Knocks: Training Camp with the Cleveland Browns” this past summer, Williams became something of a celebrity among Browns supporters, who took to his intensity and vulgar tirades. Williams liked to end defensive huddles with the phrase, “Come get some.”“He’s not here to make you feel comfortable,” said the former linebacker Jo-Lonn Dunbar, who played for Williams in New Orleans and St. Louis. “He’s willing to ruffle your feathers.”Williams is indeed a throwback to the era of football coach as force of nature. Gase’s introduction to the Jets was judged by some as notably subdued. But Williams thunders into a locker room like a gale.In Cleveland, where he was defensive coordinator for two seasons, he warned parents about bringing young children to training camp because of his propensity to yell obscenities. He admonished reporters for slouching in chairs. He trash-talked the matinee-idol quarterback Baker Mayfield.Dunbar said practices were intensified by Williams’s insistence that any loose ball be treated like a turnover, at all times.“Anytime a ball hits the ground, he wants you to pick it up,” Dunbar said. “Anytime a ball is overthrown, he wants you to act like it was an interception and return it.”Dunbar added that players eventually became “conditioned to go after the ball.”It strikes some as just the sort of Type A personality that can light a fire under the Jets, who struggled under Coach Todd Bowles.“They need a guy that can come and crack the whip — teach them football but also be very demanding,” said Bart Scott, a former Jets linebacker who is now a co-host of “The CMB Show” on WFAN. “He can teach them and give them the tools to be successful in different situations.”The Jets have declined to make Williams available for interviews until after Gase’s full staff has been assembled. Gase also hired Dowell Loggains from the Miami Dolphins to be offensive coordinator, and kept the special-teams coordinator Brant Boyer.In a recent interview on a Pro Football Talk podcast, Gase said he had known Williams for more than a decade.“He did his time,” Gase said of Williams and the scandal in New Orleans. “He’s gotten a second chance, he’s done it right, he’s gone and worked extremely hard to do things the right way, and for me or anybody else to hold that over his head, to me, is wrong.”Many Jets players expressed enthusiasm after Williams was hired. Safety Jamal Adams, at the Pro Bowl in Orlando, said he had already been watching videos of Williams’s teams on YouTube.“He’s the best in the business,” Adams said. “I’ve had so many players hit me up to tell me how much I’m going to love Coach Gregg.”One former player who may not share such sentiments is Peyton Manning, who recommended Gase, his former offensive coordinator in Denver, to the Jets. Williams once told a Nashville radio station that he wanted his defenders to put “remember me” hits on Manning, then the quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts.Williams will probably bring at least one significant change to the defensive scheme. The Jets have used a 3-4 (three down linemen, four linebackers) base defense since Eric Mangini arrived in 2006. But Williams is known for his 4-3 format, which emphasizes speed rushers on the outside, something the Jets do not exactly have right now.The team does have more than $100 million in cap space, so there should be flexibility to acquire a defensive end or two to fit Williams’s vision, which relies on the blitz.“They’re going to be probably the most aggressive defense in the N.F.L.,” Dunbar said. “He’s going to bring pressure. He’s going to manufacture pressure.”The Jets tried this approach under Rex Ryan, who took them to two consecutive A.F.C. championship games. It worked until it didn’t. Ryan coached the Jets for six years and was fired after the 2014 season, when he went too 4-12.Williams’s demanding personality will be an adjustment for some players. Dunbar said another difficulty is how much information he throws at his players so they understand more than just their role in the defense — he wants them to know the whole orchestra, not just its parts.“He wants his players to be more like coaches on the field than just robotic players,” Dunbar said. “He wants them to play with instinct and be able to call what they feel.”To Scott, that is the type of coach the Jets need, controversy aside.“He was the best hire available,” Scott said. “You have talented pieces. They just don’t know how to be great.”AdvertisementFeatureAfter decades of resistance to sports gambling, team owners and state officials are laying the groundwork for it — with potentially huge implications.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Najeebah Al-Ghadban. Source photograph: Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images.Supported byBy Bruce SchoenfeldHalf an hour before a preseason hockey game last fall, Ted Leonsis strolled down the concourse of Capital One Arena in Washington, stopping every now and then to pose for someone’s selfie. Leonsis owns both the Washington Capitals, the National Hockey League team, and the arena itself, a squat behemoth that fills a block of Chinatown not far from Ford’s Theater. He also owns other teams that play there, including the Washington Wizards, in the National Basketball Association, and some smaller ones that don’t.Leonsis is easily the most popular sports owner in the nation’s capital, though the Wizards have managed just one division title in his eight seasons and his N.H.L. team underachieved for years. It helps that the Capitals finally won the Stanley Cup last season, the city’s first championship in any major professional league in more than a quarter-century. But Leonsis is also uncommonly friendly to fans. During his customary lap around the arena, he fielded questions from anyone who came up to him. It was hard to imagine many big-league owners doing the same.A middle-aged African-American man in a Capitals jersey approached Leonsis. “What about that gambling thing?” he asked. A few months before, the federal statute prohibiting sports gambling was overturned by the Supreme Court; this was the first home game since a few states, newly liberated to set their own gambling agendas, had implemented laws allowing sports bets. Leonsis has been vocal about his support for legal gambling, and he was full of ideas. One was a sports bar he planned to put inside the arena that would handle bets. It would fit into a space currently occupied by a brewpub, or perhaps displace a fitness center. He envisioned betting windows, like those at a horse track.Sports gambling wasn’t yet legal in the District of Columbia, and until it was, there would be no betting windows. But Leonsis is confident that they will come. “Eventually,” he told me, the bar “will be somewhere that fans can congregate and watch games and bet on the games in whatever way they want to” — whether at the windows or on hand-held devices. Leonsis would outsource the bookmaking, because owning a team while taking bets on its games would be perceived as a conflict of interest (and probably be illegal). Instead, he would simply offer a site for eating, drinking and more gambling. “Except that I want to outlaw the word ‘gambling,’ ” he said. “Maybe call it ‘interactive wagering.’ When you hear ‘gambling,’ you think of Tony Soprano — ‘I’m with my bookie.’ People who bet on N.C.A.A. pools at their church, they don’t think they’re gambling. They are.”Leonsis, who held various executive positions at America Online from 1994 to 2007, says he doesn’t gamble — not on sports or on anything else. Yet he has risked both his reputation and his capital on the future of sports wagering. He owns a stake in DraftKings, a daily sports fantasy company that has segued into online gambling. He has invested in Sportradar, which delivers, at high speed, information on games in progress to bookmaking websites, creating the sort of advantage enjoyed by Wall Street traders who, in his words, “get a quarter of a second more to say ‘buy that stock.’ ” He owns part of WinView, which holds numerous patents for various aspects of in-game gambling. He hopes to fill the schedule of the NBC Sports Washington cable channel, of which he owns a third, with chatter about point spreads and gambling opportunities. “Like CNBC,” he says.Gambling on sports became explicitly legal in Nevada in 1949. Until recently, the prospect of it spreading beyond that state’s borders was treated as potentially ruinous by the franchise owners and commissioners who ruled over sports. They feared that it would alter the relationship between fans and their favorite teams, and that gambling would expose athletes to underworld characters trying to manipulate games. Eventually, the cautionary tale went, the competition in even the biggest leagues would be indistinguishable from the manufactured plotlines of pro wrestling or old-time roller derby. Gambling on sports was already happening, of course — at Las Vegas casinos, on illegal internet sites, at the corner bar — yet somehow that hadn’t made it more palatable. “Even five years ago,” says Steve Murray, a partner with Leonsis in the venture-capital firm that has invested in many of these businesses, “you would have had a hard time finding a single owner in any of these leagues saying that gambling was a good idea. You wouldn’t have been able to do it.”Since then, attitudes seem to have changed abruptly. It’s now difficult to find anyone inside sports who opposes gambling. In part that’s because the leagues and their investors have come to see how much they stand to gain. But it’s also a result of insiders like Leonsis evangelizing to anyone who would listen: in owners’ meetings, in conversations with sponsors, even with U.S. congressmen during a 2017 gambling conference on Capitol Hill. “He’s a visionary, and he speaks quite eloquently about what the future opportunities are,” says Gary Bettman, the N.H.L.’s commissioner, who until recently strongly opposed gambling on sports. “He has been at the forefront of pushing us to make sure we’re as knowledgeable as we can be. I get emails on this from him daily — more than daily.”Leonsis speaks slowly but exuberantly. His conversation unfolds as logically as a business plan. “What are you so afraid of?” he likes to ask anyone who seems uneasy about gambling. “We’re going to create more jobs. We’re going to generate more taxes.” While pro athletes were once paid poorly enough to make the offers of payoffs enticing, Leonsis argues that a vast majority are today far wealthier than anyone who might tempt them. “I don’t think an N.B.A. player is susceptible to some hustler saying, ‘Shave the points, and here’s $5,000 in hundred-dollar bills,’ ” he says.Leonsis arrived back at his suite shortly after the opening face-off. He sat down in time to see the Boston Bruins score a goal. I mentioned that where sports wagers were now legal, gamblers had surely placed bets both for and against the Capitals. Leonsis wanted his team to win, naturally, even though this preseason game didn’t really count. But he admitted that just the fact that those bets could be made meant that, in a sense, he’d already won.In the middle of the 20th century, television began reframing the way we experience sports. It gave us replays and extended timeouts, pushed World Series games into prime time, scrambled conference affiliations. Through national telecasts and highlights and, later, superstations and cable networks, fans grew intimate with teams many hundreds of miles away. Now gambling is poised to unleash changes just as transformative, and they may come fast. In an October report, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated that a fully developed sports gambling industry in all states would draw $100 billion in bets every year; the congressional National Gambling Impact Study Commission has suggested the figure could be closer to $400 billion. Whatever the size of the jackpot, leagues, teams and broadcasters will want their piece of it. “The players, the sponsors, all the stakeholders in the ecosystem can become beneficiaries of this,” says Peter Guber, an owner of both the Golden State Warriors and the Los Angeles Dodgers.The games we watch are already enhanced by data collected through technological advances. Announcers tell us how hard baseballs are hit and how far they travel, or how many miles a particularly active soccer player has run. Because such derivatives create new opportunities for betting, we’re sure to see many more of them. (The N.B.A. has been advertising for a gambling data analyst on the employment website Glassdoor.) Hockey hasn’t traditionally generated much in the way of metrics, but in order to learn who is skating the fastest or shooting the hardest, the N.H.L. is preparing to record the movements of every player during every game and even put a chip inside the puck. “Leagues are building a fire hose of data around their product,” says Chris Grove, an analyst who consults for gaming companies and investors. “And the logical recipient of that data is the betting industry.”What are the chances that someone homers in the next two innings? Or kicks a field goal in the next five minutes? Imagine those odds sliding across the bottom of your screen like the CNN news crawl. As a sports media consultant and former N.B.A. executive named Ed Desser puts it, “How does the production and presentation of telecasts change to accommodate gambling?” Explicit references to betting might seem jarring during a Masters broadcast, which has the feel of a conversation in a Ritz-Carlton lobby. But Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson’s made-for-TV showdown in November, which included such information, gave viewers more reasons to care about what happened.Real-time digital wagering has created betting opportunities that don’t rely on the score; the appeal of a game in which the Patriots are up by 30 points in the fourth quarter is altogether different if you can put money down right then on how many more first downs they’ll get. As viewers create their own narrative tension by betting on pieces of the action, broadcast rights fees will increase and franchise values soar. That tension could also be artificially created and exploited by event promoters too. “If you’re the U.F.C. and you have an absolute dog of a fight on a major card for whatever reason, you could use odds and promotions around betting to drive fan interest,” Grove points out. “You could use betting proactively.”Legal gambling also opens the door to an entirely new source of sponsorship income. In English soccer, 26 of the 44 teams that compete in the sport’s top echelons wear shirts festooned with the names of bookmaking sites. Don’t be surprised to see them soon in the N.B.A. or Major League Soccer. Games will be held in venues with names like the Bet365 Bowl or Caesars Coliseum and be analyzed by touts on TV and subscription podcasts. “As you create more interest in these things, people want more information,” Desser says. “And they’re always looking for an edge.”Perhaps nobody sees more dollar signs on the horizon than legislators. It remains uncertain how quickly states will continue to pass new gambling laws, or how broad or restrictive those will be, but few dispute the potential impact. “I was talking to some economic development people from Alabama,” says Jack Evans, a District of Columbia council member who introduced a sports gambling bill there that is expected to become law in March. “They were asking how they could raise money. I told them: ‘Put in sports gambling and you can pay off all your debts on the Alabama-Auburn football game alone. One game, Alabama and Auburn. You’d make billions.’ ”Leonsis has a stake in nearly all of these possibilities. He envisions simulcasts of every Wizards and Capitals game on NBC Sports Washington that will include a steady stream of betting information. He controls two teams in the resurrected Arena Football League and is pitching networks a gambling-centric concept for its games that’s too overt for the stodgy N.F.L., at least for now. Sportradar’s chief executive told me he expects its $2.4 billion valuation to quintuple in three years with the opening of the U.S. market, which will mean the same for Leonsis’s stake. And if franchise values rise because of fans’ increased engagement in the sports they follow, Leonsis’s N.H.L. and N.B.A. teams could be his most profitable gambling plays of all. In time, sports betting may generate its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos, some forward-thinking entrepreneur who comes to define the zeitgeist of his generation. For now, though, the person whose odds are as great as anyone’s to profit from this emerging industry is Leonsis, a 62-year-old billionaire who has been around since the early days of the World Wide Web.The history of regulated gambling in America goes back to 1931, when Nevada opened the nation’s first casinos. The state was on the verge of bankruptcy, a predicament that motivated it to defy the prevailing national sentiment against gambling. “Any state could have done it,” says Anthony Cabot, who teaches gaming law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “But no others did.” Just as pro football was starting to thrive, Nevada broadened its gambling law to regulate sports bets. Over the next half-century, American attitudes toward gambling evolved. In 1978, with great fanfare, casinos opened in Atlantic City. A decade later, Congress passed a law permitting them on land owned by Native American tribes. By 2003, a Gallup Poll revealed, nearly half of all Americans had played the lottery in the previous 12 months; almost a third had visited a casino. But just 10 percent had bet on a pro sports event, mostly because there were few legal ways to do it.Nobody tried to legalize sports betting outside Nevada until Chris Christie. By the time Christie became New Jersey’s governor in 2010, Atlantic City was in trouble. The novelty appeal of its casinos had faded. Hotel bookings had plummeted — and tax-generating casino revenues with them. Christie saw sports betting as a way to counter those losses. His first year in office, he pushed a referendum that would allow it at any racetrack or casino in the state. The referendum passed, and Christie signed it into law.There was only one problem. Through the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 — which, in a somewhat curious twist, had been sponsored by New Jersey’s own Bill Bradley, the former N.B.A. great turned senator — the federal government banned sports gambling throughout the country, beyond a few existing manifestations that were allowed to continue. Those included betting on bicycle racing in New Mexico and golf in Wyoming, several sports-based lotteries, horse racing, jai alai and the bookmaking inside Nevada’s casinos.In 2014, New Jersey’s referendum was challenged in court by the N.C.A.A. The major sports leagues joined the suit as plaintiffs. But Christie had calculated that the Supreme Court wouldn’t uphold a law banning a recreational pursuit in 49 states that had been legal for decades in the 50th, and he was right. The court, analysts noted, wanted to make a show of limiting federal jurisdiction. “They just happened to pick a gambling law to do so,” Cabot says. Last May’s verdict in what had been renamed Murphy v. N.C.A.A., after Christie’s successor, Phil Murphy, surprised the gambling industry. “You’d be amazed how many casino operators didn’t see it coming,” says Greg Carlin, co-founder and chief executive of Rush Street Gaming, which owns casinos in Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois. It didn’t surprise Leonsis, though. He’d been planning on it for years.Leonsis dates his personal revelation about gambling to November 2015, when he found himself visiting the remote southwest coast of Scotland. His daughter, who lived in London, had a serious boyfriend, and both families had flown in to spend Thanksgiving weekend at a manor house owned by the boyfriend’s parents. On a clear day, Leonsis was told, you could see Ireland across the water. He never could confirm that, though, because the weather was never clear. The basketball and hockey seasons were underway back home, but the house had no internet or satellite reception, so Leonsis couldn’t follow his teams. It was foggy and cold. “There was nothing to do,” he says.The closest village of any size, Campbeltown, was 40 minutes away. One morning, they all drove in for lunch. Nobody seemed to be around. “The whole town is like two blocks long,” Leonsis says. “And there’s one restaurant and a pharmacy. And then we saw one place that had some life to it.” Inside a storefront, a crowd was making noise. It was the betting parlor, Leonsis learned. The phrase didn’t carry any connotation of disrepute, as it would in America. “It was just, ‘This is where you go and watch a game and see your friends and hang out,’ ” he said. “It was the ‘Cheers’ of Campbeltown.”From Scotland, Leonsis went to London. Driving through his daughter’s neighborhood, he noticed one betting parlor after another. “Like in America, where you’d have a Starbucks,” he says. He investigated and found that you could bet on sports at 8,500 outlets in the United Kingdom. As a comparison, he looked up Domino’s pizza and saw that it had roughly 5,500 stores across the United States. “For me, that was the beginning of, ‘Hey, this is a true consumer phenomenon,’ ” he says. The parlors seemed inviting. They weren’t seedy haunts for professional gamblers. “This is not Off-Track Betting,” Leonsis says. “This is Starbucks or Domino’s. This is popularized and accepted in the most remote places and the most centrally located places. If you wanted to find a proxy of what could happen here, you just had to look at Campbeltown and London.”Adam Silver, who is now the N.B.A.’s commissioner, had been doing just that. From 1998 to 2006, Silver ran the league’s video production and programming. On frequent business trips abroad, he couldn’t help noticing how pervasive gambling was. Stadiums had betting kiosks beside their snack bars. “There was this enormous legalized infrastructure in place,” Silver says. Yet somehow, leagues and teams hadn’t been corrupted. In fact, they were thriving. Silver’s boss at the time, David Stern, was a lawyer who had come to the sport during college basketball’s betting scandals of the 1960s. Throughout his tenure, Stern remained opposed to gambling — he later changed his mind — and for years even refused to hold league meetings and other events in Las Vegas. “But the opportunity seemed fairly obvious to me,” Silver says.In 2014, Silver succeeded Stern as N.B.A. commissioner. That year, in a New York Times Op-Ed, he made an argument that did not differ much from those advocating the legalization of marijuana. “Despite legal restrictions, sports betting is widespread,” he wrote. “Because there are few legal options available, those who wish to bet resort to illicit bookmaking operations and shady offshore websites.” Why not bring the action into the light, he proposed, where it could be regulated, and the movement of betting lines and the sums of money monitored?Earlier that fall, the N.B.A. signed a nine-year, $24 billion television rights deal. At the league’s board of governors meeting in New York, Leonsis, who was chairman of its media committee, presented it to the rest of the owners. Even as he celebrated the deal, he cautioned that such fees were unlikely to grow, though the cost of operating teams inevitably would. “We have to find new pots of gold,” he said.Leonsis believed he had found them on that trip to the United Kingdom. You can hold your nose all you want, he later told his colleagues, but gambling offered a viable and wholly untapped source of revenue for the N.B.A. Leonsis can be almost courtly in negotiations, and he was polite when he met resistance. Privately, though, he shook his head. How could you ignore such an opportunity, ready to be taken advantage of as soon as the law allowed? What are you so afraid of?For decades, sports gambling tended to be a static experience. You bet on a team and handed money to somebody, and maybe got a slip of paper in return. Then you waited to find out if you were right. That changed when three American options traders moved to Antigua in the mid-1990s to create an online gambling business they named World Sports Exchange. Instead of offering point spreads, World Sports Exchange operated like a commodities market. Before tipoff, options on the favored Lakers, for example, might cost $60 each. Options on the Knicks, the underdogs, might sell for $40. At the end of the game, the options on the losing team would become worthless, while the options on the winning team would each pay out $100.But here was the novelty: You didn’t have to wait until the game was over to cash in. If the Lakers scored the first eight points, the value of that $60 option might grow to, say, $72. You could sell it and pocket your $12 gain. You might then invest in the Knicks at a discount. Or you might wait for the price to fall and buy another option on the Lakers. You could buy and sell options, on either team or both, throughout the game. Once you’d started, it was hard to stop until the game ended. It was exhausting. It was also great fun. And even more than the other bookmakers operating beyond U.S. borders, which were handling traditional bets, it seemed to threaten the monopoly on sports gambling that Nevada’s casinos had long enjoyed.I met one of those traders, Haden Ware, under a thatched roof in the Caribbean in early 2000. He was drinking beer and eating lobster salad. Steve Schillinger, a partner at World Sports Exchange, later confided to me that he and Ware were each making more than $1 million a year. Yet they were miserable. The Interstate Wire Act of 1961 had outlawed taking bets over telephone lines. In that era of dial-up internet access, that’s exactly what World Sports Exchange was doing. Online gambling was “especially pernicious,” in the words of Jon Kyl, the U.S. senator from Arizona. “You get up in the morning and log on to your computer and start to gamble. It plays to the addictive nature of many people, especially kids.” Quoting an unnamed Harvard professor, Kyl called it “the crack cocaine of gambling.” A conservative Republican, Kyl introduced specific legislation against internet gambling and vowed to indict expats taking bets online. In 1998, 21 U.S. citizens were charged with Wire Act violations. Among them were Ware, Schillinger and Jay Cohen, another partner. Weary of living in exile, Cohen flew home. He was convicted and served 18 months in prison. Janet Reno, the U.S. Attorney General, backed Kyl’s efforts. So did casinos, sports leagues and gambling interest groups — just about everyone, in fact, except some Indian tribes. Even the lobbyist being paid by World Sports Exchange acknowledged that the opponents of digital gambling had a point. “The casinos worked a long time to establish legitimacy,” he told me.Eventually, World Sports Exchange was overtaken by better-funded rivals. It ceased operations in 2013. That same day, Schillinger committed suicide. After serving his sentence, Cohen disappeared to Europe. By then, though, their insight that betting doesn’t have to stop when play begins had revolutionized the industry; what DraftKings and its competitors are currently doing in New Jersey, and what companies like Betfair and Bet365 do in England, could not exist without it.Since the demise of World Sports Exchange, sports betting on various hand-held devices has proliferated. And because smartphones and tablets routinely capture the details of each transaction, proponents argue that games are actually better protected against manipulation when digital betting is legal. “If there was a huge bet placed against a team two hours before an announcement that its star player wouldn’t be participating, that is something that should cause us to investigate,” Silver says. “And it’s something that historically we wouldn’t have known.”For many N.B.A. owners — and some in other leagues as well — the conversion began in 2014 with Silver’s Op-Ed and his argument that legalization actually offered more protection, not less, from the unsavory characters who might try to influence players. Europe was proving to be a test case, and its teams were thriving. Now Leonsis has come along, telling owners that their franchises would gain in value because gambling, like fantasy leagues, gives fans another reason to be engrossed in a sport.“Ted was able to articulate the value proposition of not just the betting, but the deepening of the engagement,” Guber says. Rather than customers, Leonsis thinks of fans as an audience. “He understood that audiences want experiences,” Guber says. “This gives them a chance to walk away telling their own story — ‘I saw this opportunity, I recognized what this player would be able to accomplish.’ When you have a tool that makes an audience more of a participant than a passenger, it’s a very vital and vibrant element.”There are risks inherent in legalizing sports gambling, Guber believes. But after talking with Leonsis, he became convinced that its opportunities far outweighed them. The N.B.A. was still a plaintiff when the Supreme Court heard the gambling case in late 2017, but by then Guber was among the many owners who were rooting for New Jersey to win.One afternoon last October, Terry Link drove from his home outside Chicago to Springfield, the Illinois state capital. An informational presentation about gambling was scheduled in the House of Representatives the following day, and Link, a Democrat who serves as assistant majority leader in the Illinois Senate, wanted to attend. Since he was first elected in 1996, he has sponsored several gambling bills. Not one became law. “I’m still waiting to get one signed,” he says ruefully.Before dinner that evening, he stopped into a bar to meet Jeremy Kudon, a lobbyist whom DraftKings and its competitor FanDuel have hired to help persuade legislators to pass laws allowing digital gambling. After ordering a soda, Link told Kudon that Illinois casinos hoped to use sports betting to get new customers into their buildings. He reminded Kudon that casinos have generated plenty of tax money for the state. Because of that, Link said, he wouldn’t favor a bill that would allow gamblers to undermine them by “placing bets from the couches in their living rooms.”This was a problem for Kudon, because bets placed from living-room couches are exactly what his clients need to survive. Kudon argued that gamblers were already betting from their couches, but doing so on illegal websites. And the state was missing out on its cut.DraftKings and FanDuel, whose valuations are both estimated to exceed $1 billion, were founded on the same idea: curate a limitless number of fantasy leagues for profit, generated by participation fees, and let customers choose new players every day. For many fans, watching games quickly became the equivalent of monitoring their investment portfolios, except the investments were bets on individual players. Eric Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general at the time, thought that sounded a lot like gambling.Games of skill are legal in every state; you can pay to participate in fishing or bowling competitions, for example, and win cash prizes. What you can’t do is bet on who you think will win those competitions. The fantasy sites argued, somewhat tenuously, that constructing a winning team is more like fishing than knowing who is good at fishing. Schneiderman disagreed. In 2015, he shut down both sites and fined the companies. At that point, DraftKings and FanDuel began working to get bills passed in state legislatures that would certify fantasy sports as legal.Soon after, Leonsis bought part of DraftKings. He tends to characterize troubled companies in one of two ways — as either “falling angels,” which eventually rise again, or as “falling knives,” which don’t. In DraftKings, he saw a falling angel. He anticipated that digital sports betting would become legal, and he agreed with Jason Robins, the DraftKings chief executive, that the gaming-industry giants everyone assumed would dominate the U.S. market — the English bookmaker William Hill or maybe Bally’s or Caesars — were actually at a disadvantage. “We have a big database of customers that we know from research are already betting on sports, mostly with black-market websites,” Robins says. “And we have a brand that is much more identified with winning money and betting on sports than any of them that we’re competing with.”Last summer, DraftKings partnered with a casino, as New Jersey’s law requires, and became the first company to begin taking digital bets. Since then, it has done more online business than any other bookmaker. Its ads blanket cable networks in New Jersey. “Get ready for thousands of ways to bet!” they shout — and they’re not exaggerating. One DraftKings executive estimates that the company’s app averages 45,000 to 55,000 different propositions for gamblers to consider every day.But sports gambling laws enacted in most other states have restricted digital activity. Mississippi allows it, but only if the gamblers are physically inside a casino. Delaware’s law has not yet allowed any digital betting at all. Some casinos plan to leverage their brands online, but many regard digital gambling as a threat. “We have hundreds of millions of dollars invested in our casinos,” says Dan Kehl, the chief executive of Elite Casino Resorts, whose family has been in the gambling business in Iowa since 1990.Kehl backs a bill that would require anyone who wants to bet on sports to first register at one of Iowa’s 19 casinos. That wouldn’t work in larger states, he acknowledges, but no one in Iowa is more than an hour’s drive from a casino. Registered gamblers could bet digitally, though on only a limited selection of propositions. “The question is, how far can we let the mobile go?” Kehl says. That troubles Leonsis, not just because DraftKings might not get the right to operate profitably there, but because nobody will. If gamblers betting on illegal sites can’t be persuaded to bet legally, much of the windfall that investors and politicians like Terry Link are anticipating won’t materialize. It’s not enough that states pass laws legalizing sports betting, Leonsis explains; they have to pass the right law. “The only way that gambling doesn’t work,” he says, “is if the revenue projections are off. If it turns out that all those estimates we hear are wildly inaccurate.”Despite Kudon’s best efforts, laws that Leonsis considers favorable have been a difficult sell, mostly because of political pressure from casinos. In Springfield that evening, Link acknowledged that he personally favored digital sites partnering with casinos and paying them fees. But, he told Kudon, the Illinois casinos insist that whatever fees they’d get wouldn’t make up for the loss of all those potential roulette players. At that, Kudon rolled his eyes. “The gamblers that we’re talking about aren’t going to casinos,” he said. “They’ll never set foot in Rivers,” a casino in Des Plaines, Ill., “because they can bet on sports on these illegal sites. So let’s encourage them to go on DraftKings or FanDuel instead, and Rivers will get a benefit.” To Kudon, the mathematics are clear. “The state gets its licensing fee, and now we’ve gotten rid of the black market,” he said. “That seems like a win to everyone.”If Link’s bill allowed hand-held gambling, as Kudon fantasized, travelers might even make bets while changing planes at O’Hare airport. He urged Link to consider what that would mean for Illinois, the millions of tax dollars that might be generated if gamblers didn’t have to travel to a casino to bet. Link stroked his chin. “I don’t think there’s a right answer yet,” Link said. “You have to look at all the factors involved. In New Jersey, nobody wants to go to the Boardwalk anymore. All the casinos there are going kaput.”He sighed. Common ground seemed a long way away. “Listen, there’s no such thing as a perfect bill,” he said. “The reason we don’t pass these bills comes down to one word: ‘greed.’ Nobody wants part of the pie — they want the whole damn pie.”Last July, Silver announced that the N.B.A. had, in a sponsorship deal, granted MGM Resorts the right to use league logos and data. Even the N.H.L.’s Bettman has come to terms with gambling. “We’ve had a very practical approach,” he told me in his office a few months later. The previous afternoon, the N.H.L. announced its own deal with MGM, though the payment involved was said to be far smaller than the N.B.A.’s.But gambling’s greatest impact, at least proportionally, could come in the new professional leagues it spawns and the moribund ones it helps to resurrect. The Arena Football League once included 19 teams spread across the continent; last year there were four. Leonsis owns the Washington and Baltimore franchises, which makes him not only the most powerful owner in the league but the only person preventing its demise. He has positioned it as an ideal entertainment vehicle for the next generation. That includes gambling, of course. Arena Football averages a touchdown every six plays, Leonsis notes, as well as 98 points a game. “Lots of data generated,” he says — and a multitude of possible bets.Greater than $30 billion has been bet legally on football since 1992, according to the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. That’s about 50 percent more than on basketball, and double the amount bet on baseball. Leonsis wants to expand the A.F.L. to six franchises, and eventually to 12. But his vision mandates a network partner that will market the game as the anti-N.F.L.: informal, expressive and gambling-friendly. It doesn’t matter that the league, as currently constituted, has almost no history, he says. Your favorite team will be the one you have money on at the moment.On a private flight to New York last fall, Leonsis ran through a pitch he planned to show Sean McManus, who runs the sports department at CBS. He envisioned fast-paced telecasts of A.F.L. games on an affiliated sports channel. But as the plane landed in Teterboro, N.J., he confided that he doesn’t believe CBS will end up investing. Its executives are leery of jeopardizing their relationship with the N.F.L., he said, and that’s probably wise. The N.F.L. most likely wouldn’t look kindly on one of its primary partners’ televising another football league’s games. As usual, though, Leonsis was looking further ahead.“If the N.F.L. is smart, they should want CBS to do this,” he said. “See how far they can take it. Let the A.F.L. be the canary in the coal mine. See what works and what doesn’t work, and then they can pull back from there on their own telecasts.” He paused. “CBS is going to be very nice to us today, but I don’t know if they’re ready for this. We’re going to blow their minds.”An hour later, he was still stuck in New Jersey traffic. He also hadn’t stopped talking about gambling. But while his ideas had the potential to be wildly lucrative, I was struck by how little had actually happened in the months since the Supreme Court ruling. The betting parlor in his arena remained theoretical. DraftKings was thriving in New Jersey, but it hadn’t yet been licensed in another state. Sportradar’s explosive growth still existed only in the imagination of its chief executive. And most of the gambling laws being considered in state legislatures included severe limitations on digital play. As a result, in most states that have passed gambling laws, early revenues haven’t met projections. The growth process is slow, Leonsis admitted, and unpredictable. Yet he remained optimistic. “At AOL, it took us 10 years to get to 5 million” users, he said. “Then it took us five years to get to 30 million.”Just then, his car passed a billboard for a casino that read “Fire Your Bookie.” Leonsis pulled out his phone. “Look,” he said. “I’ll show you.” The DraftKings app was pulsing with offers. There were odds on who would win that night’s N.F.L. game and by how much, but also bets on total points on various games, odds on tennis matches, even European basketball. I was scrolling through them when we entered the Holland Tunnel and everything vanished. “We just passed into New York,” Leonsis said. “So now it won’t work.”A moment before, I’d been a legal gambler. Now, if I tried to place a bet from the same seat in the same car, I’d be breaking the law. I didn’t say anything, but Leonsis must have read the incredulity in my expression. He shrugged.“It’s a work in progress,” he said.Bruce Schoenfeld is frequent contributor to the magazine. He last wrote about Mickey Callaway, the manager of the New York Mets.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTwo historically black neighborhoods lie in the shadow of the Atlanta stadium hosting this year’s Super Bowl, but the riches its creation represents? Just out of reach.Photographs and Text by Dustin ChambersATLANTA — There is a history of broken promises here, in English Avenue and Vine City, two neighborhoods near Mercedes-Benz Stadium, which will host the Super Bowl on Sunday. Built with more than $700 million in public funds for construction and future maintenance, the approximately $1.5 billion stadium opened in grand fashion in 2017 near these historically black neighborhoods, two of the poorest in the Southeast.Before this stadium, there was the Georgia Dome, which was developed in the early 1990s. An entire neighborhood, Lightning, was razed to make way for that stadium, which was then demolished to make way for Mercedes-Benz Stadium. In the Georgia Dome’s life span — it was home to the N.F.L.’s Atlanta Falcons from 1992 to 2016 — residents of English Avenue and Vine City kept waiting to see the revitalization city officials had said would come. In May 2014, construction began on Mercedes-Benz Stadium, which promised to be one of the nation’s most awe-inspiring sports facilities. As it rose, two black churches were displaced and tens of millions of dollars were directed toward efforts and organizations to help the local residents.A lifelong Atlantan, I began photographing the full spectrum of residents’ lives in English Avenue and Vine City shortly after the stadium broke ground: from the joys of ribbon cuttings for new parks and children blowing out candles on birthday cakes to the sorrows of funerals, house fires and people grappling with heroin addiction.Along the way, I met Chiliquila Ogletree, a United States Army veteran and matriarch of a family that has lived in English Avenue for five generations. One of her earliest memories of living here was watching the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s public funeral service.In recent years, she has taken guardianship of six grandchildren — a struggle all its own. But with them all in a house without running water, Ogletree has also become a master of efficiency and economy to ensure everyone is bathed, clothed and out the door by 7:10 a.m.Arthur Blank, the Atlanta Falcons owner and a Home Depot co-founder, has invested millions of dollars in the neighborhood through the Arthur M. Blank Family Foundation. There is a new job training center and the @Promise Youth Center, and some homeowners have had their homes repaired through programs like Habitat for Humanity. With only a small fraction of the population owning their homes, and most residents older adults, an affordable housing complex for seniors that is under construction may offer a higher quality of life to those homeowners who do not have the money to maintain their own property. But it also means those homes may soon be vacant, making the land they occupy ready for development. New development typically raises property taxes and rents, and often forces out community residents, threatening their fragile economic existence.On Sunday, as more than 70,000 football fans pack into Atlanta’s Westside, exhaust will billow from the cars and pickup trucks filling the many lots that separate the stadium and neighborhood residents. Ogletree’s mother, Elaine Minter, 71, will be watching the game from her room at her daughter’s home. “Yeah, I look at the Super Bowl every year,” Minter said. She added, “Ain’t no way I’m going down to no damn stadium.”After the game, a winning team will emerge, its colors will be paraded in the streets, and then it will be Monday — just another day for the people for whom English Avenue and Vine City are simply called “home.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs another N.F.L. season winds to a close, the New England Patriots find themselves in a familiar position: favorites in the Super Bowl. But it wasn’t certain they would hold the honor until nearly the last minute.For much of the season, the Patriots were considered a tier below the best teams; for months, that group included the Saints, the Chiefs and the Rams. Throughout the season, bookmakers offering early Super Bowl wagering made the N.F.C. entrant — whomever it turned out to be — a 3-point favorite over a generic A.F.C. representative.As the big game got closer, however, oddsmakers began offering odds on hypothetical Super Bowl matchups. The Rams were generally listed as a 1-point favorite over the Patriots as recently as a week ago.Then the teams played their conference championship game.“Everything is about public perception: What have you done for me lately?” said Scott Cooley, a spokesman for the online gambling site BetDSI. “As we saw the Rams game unfold, they were down the entire game, they benefited from an egregious miscall. Maybe this team is not as strong as we thought they were.“The Patriots were dominant on the road over a Chiefs squad that was favored. The manner in which the last two quarters unfolded: marching down the field and scoring in overtime — the Rams won in less convincing fashion.”Immediately after the Super Bowl matchup was confirmed, many bookmakers made Rams-Patriots a pick ’em game. Bettors reacted quickly."We opened at even,” said Marco Blume, trading director at Pinnacle Sports. “Then the action came almost immediately on the Patriots.” All that action has led Pinnacle to recalculate, and make the Patriots a 2-point favorite.“We know the Patriots are a public team,” Cooley said. “They are always going to be wagered on by the Average Joe bettor. The Patriots, the Cowboys, the Packers. They are going to blindly bet on those teams.”Cooley identified the key moment when the Patriots started gaining respect as the divisional round against the Chargers. “Smart pro bettors were betting the Chargers, though the public still liked the Patriots,” he said. “The spread went from Patriots by 5, down to 3½. And the Pats crushed them.”At that point, casual fans and smart bettors alike started to realize that “this isn’t a feeble Patriots team,” Cooley said. “Maybe Gronk isn’t doing the damage he once did, but you’d be hard-pressed to bet against them.”Could the line, now 2 at most places, keep moving to Patriots by 3 or even 4 by a week from Sunday? Probably not, several bookmakers said.“We’re going to reach peak on the Patriots soon,” Blume said. “Sharp customers may look to get a bargain on the Rams. People are waiting. The sharps have a number in their heads, and as soon as they see a chance, they will pounce on you.”The Patriots’ current status as 2-point favorites defies computer rankings, though, which are the basis of most lines. In Jeff Sagarin’s main ranking, the Patriots are a mere four-hundredths of a point better than the Rams. In his Predictor rating, in which many bettors put even more stock, the Rams are actually a half-point better.But the bets keep coming in on New England.“People love Tom Brady,” Blume said.It wasn’t always this way. In the first Super Bowl of the Brady era, in February 2002, the Patriots were 14-point underdogs to the 14-2 St. Louis Rams. The Patriots won anyway.Bettors learned. The Patriots have been Super Bowl favorites six times in seven games since then, ranging from 2½ points to 12. In one game, against the Seahawks after the 2014 season, the line was even. The Pats won four of those seven games, but covered the spread in only two of them.Regardless of who wins on Feb. 3 in Atlanta, one thing seems sure: Points will be scored.The over-under on the game is between 57 and 58, potentially the highest in Super Bowl history. The previous record was 57, for Atlanta-New England two years ago and New Orleans-Indianapolis in 2010.Thanks to rule changes designed to protect players, the trend in football has been toward higher scoring games; over-unders in the 1960s were generally in the 30s. But that is not the only factor. Both of this year’s teams are seen as offensive powerhouses with slightly suspect defenses.“If it was Bears-Ravens, we’d have a total in the 40s,” Cooley said.Don’t expect a move into the 60s, however. Blume suggested it had topped out already. “I expect it to close a little bit lower,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWith issues of race percolating in the N.F.L., several players reflect on Martin Luther King Jr. and his protest movement.By Ken BelsonATLANTA — It is doubtful that the N.F.L. owners understood, when they decided early in 2016 to play the Super Bowl here, how the city of Atlanta, as the cradle of the civil rights movement, would serve as a natural forum for the many complicated social and racial issues that have roiled the league in recent years.Now, many players are showing that the moment is not lost on them.On Tuesday, Devin McCourty, a team captain on the New England Patriots, and several of his teammates boarded a bus to pay homage at the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park in the Sweet Auburn neighborhood of Atlanta.“Today, when we have a little time off, guys are searching for something to do so they’re not just sitting in a hotel room,” McCourty said Tuesday. “With this game, everything is focused on playing Sunday. But when you step back and think about it, what better way to be on this stage, with this platform, but also to get a big dose of what’s really important.”Often, the Super Bowl city is merely a prop for the game and parties. The Patriots, who face the Los Angeles Rams on Sunday, have played for the championship in Minneapolis, Houston and Glendale in the past five years. But Atlanta, and what it has stood for, resonates on a deeper level in light of contemporary issues in the league.McCourty saw that. He is one of the leaders of the Players Coalition, a nonprofit group that formed to improve social justice and racial equality. It was organized even before the kneeling protests against racism and police brutality initiated by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in the 2016 season.The Patriots’ visit to King’s birthplace, his church and a visitor’s center was ad hoc; McCourty wanted to go and eventually an invitation was extended to his teammates. Ten more signed up.Players in the Super Bowl rarely get out to see the sights, but this group, with the issues they champion so embroidered in the dialogue of the N.F.L., said they were determined to make Atlanta’s civil rights history part of their experience.“Any time I come to the South, I think of my parents,” said Matthew Slater, a wide receiver on the Patriots whose parents grew up in Mississippi before schools were integrated. “This is pretty surreal being here. It makes you realize there are things in life that are much bigger than football. At the end of the day, life is so much bigger than what happens in that game on Sunday.”This season, the clamor over the protests largely faded as only a handful of players — Kenny Stills of the Miami Dolphins among them — continued to kneel during the anthem. And before the season began, the N.F.L. backed off a plan to penalize players who do so.Still, the debate about the protests and their effect on the league has not been resolved. Kaepernick and another player who knelt, Eric Reid, have cases pending against the N.F.L. accusing it of colluding to keep them off teams in retaliation.And the choice of Gladys Knight to sing the national anthem at the Super Bowl brought the issue back into the spotlight because of comments she had made taking a swipe at Kaepernick and other players who did not stand for the anthem. “It is unfortunate that our national anthem has been dragged into this debate when the distinctive senses of the national anthem and fighting for justice should each stand alone,” she said in a statement to news organizations.The N.F.L. also abruptly canceled a news conference with the halftime act, Maroon 5. The events are normally controversy-free. But several pop stars said they would not perform with the band because of the league’s stance on the protests during the playing of the anthem.The league is also on the defensive because the number of minority head coaches fell by half, to four, after the latest round of firings at the end of the season.McCourty and his teammates seemed eager to move on from such controversies and focus on the work they are doing to affect change.“For a time, it was about the anthem, but really, it had nothing to do with the issues in our country,” said McCourty, who off the field has fought for juvenile justice reform. “With the anthem, people would just see, is he taking a knee, is he in the locker room. But for players, we didn’t care about that. We care about doing things that help students, help youth, help people in the community.”In many ways, the struggle between trying to effect change through protest and the work of lobbying elected officials and working with social advocacy groups was foreshadowed by Dr. King more than a half-century ago.In the visitor center across the street from the reflecting pool where King and his wife, Coretta, are interred, Devin McCourty’s twin brother, Jason, a cornerback on the Patriots, was watching a video of King’s efforts, in 1968, to boost the wages of sanitation workers in Memphis. As the video illustrated, King was assassinated there and his widow ended up holding the peaceful march through the city that her husband had planned.“You start to realize that as important is football is, you start to get married families and have kids, there are bigger things that surround us,” he said. “Though there’s a ton of work still to do, being in this museum and seeing how different times were makes you realize there was some great work done. You didn’t realize how bad it was.”The players took in the magnitude of the moment. After listening to a park ranger talk about the sanctuary in Ebenezer Baptist Church, where King was a co-pastor, the players got out of the pews, formed a circle in front of the podium where King gave his sermons, held hands, closed their eyes and prayed.“Let’s just let this sink in,” said Jack Easterby, a coach who helped organize the excursion. “We will tell our children that standing in front of Dr. King’s church, that it hasn’t always been the way it is now.”Another reminder of the tension between protest and change was on display a few miles away, at the High Museum of Art. There, an exhibit by Glenn Kaino, a conceptual artist from Los Angeles, brings to life the one-armed salute by the sprinter Tommie Smith at the Olympic Games in Mexico City in 1968. The decision by Smith and his teammate, John Carlos, to raise their clenched fists while wearing black gloves on the winner’s podium remains one of the most iconic gestures in sports and beyond.Through prints, sculpture, video and items from Smith’s archives, the exhibit entitled, With Drawn Arms, shows how Smith, a world-record holder before the Olympics, was outspoken on issues of social injustice well before he raised his fist. It also showed how his views were framed by the media. One set of panels shows the cover of Newsweek magazine from July, 1968, with Smith’s photo and a headline, the Angry Black Athlete.A four-minute trailer for an accompanying documentary played on a screen nearby. In one sequence, Smith and his wife, Delois, are in the White House with President Obama. In another, Smith — who lives about 20 miles from Atlanta — hugs Kaepernick.“Tommie represents a historical moment that has a greater meaning about what went on around it,” said Michael Rooks, the curator of the exhibit, which was extended for the Super Bowl. The controversy over Kaepernick’s decision to kneel “is in the present and volatile and very much a moving target on where it will go, where the NFL will go as a policy, what it will mean for fans.”In a large room with 144 gold-plated casts of Smith’s arm, suspended from the ceiling and arranged like a 100-foot long parabola, Enrique Beher, a cook, and Jaelyn Sims, a 20-year old student, said they were impressed with Smith’s powerful gesture, but also reminded of the debate Kaepernick started in the N.F.L.“People think fighting for civil rights is about being against America,” Sims said. “But kneeling because you want America to be better, how is that not American?”Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew DasU.S. Soccer has invited South America’s 10 soccer federations to bring their national teams to the United States in 2020 for a new intercontinental championship that would run concurrently with that summer’s European Championship.The offer, a package that includes almost $200 million in guarantees to the invited teams and their governing bodies, was made Tuesday in a letter from U.S. Soccer’s president, Carlos Cordeiro, to his counterparts at the 10 South American federations. For the past year, soccer officials across the Americas have held discussions about creating a quadrennial tournament involving national teams from both continents, but with no agreement in sight, U.S. Soccer, eager to fill a gap in the global soccer calendar and bearing an enticing nine-figure offer, is now proposing to establish its own.In the letter, Cordeiro said U.S. Soccer was offering to underwrite the new event and guarantee each nation — and both confederations — millions of dollars in appearance fees, subsidized travel and bonuses for each point earned. The champions could take home a prize of more than $11 million. Cordeiro has invited the South Americans to a meeting to discuss the proposal next week in Miami.The proposed 16-team tournament would resemble, in structure though most likely not in name, the 2016 Copa América Centenario. That tournament, a relocated version of the South American championship — expanded to celebrate the event’s 100th anniversary — brought the 10 members of the South American confederation, Conmebol, to the United States for a month to face off not only against one another, but also a half-dozen opponents from Concacaf, the regional confederation made up of North and Central America and the Caribbean.That tournament was considered a sporting and — perhaps more important — a financial success, and was won by Chile, which beat Argentina in a penalty-kick shootout in the final in East Rutherford, N.J. The new event would take place in June and July next year.The proposed 2020 tournament would again include all 10 South American teams, plus six from Concacaf, and would most likely feature a group stage and then a knockout round to determine a champion. U.S. Soccer’s role in the offer, and Concacaf’s consent, would be critical to making the event happen, since both would have to approve any plans to hold such an event in the United States.Concacaf released a statement Tuesday night acknowledging receipt of Cordeiro’s overture and expressing support for its broad strokes: “We view this opportunity positively as it is not intended to replace or substitute any future editions of the Concacaf Gold Cup and it complements our vision to continue providing opportunities for our Member Associations to play competitive football at the highest level.”In his letter, a draft of which was seen by The New York Times, Cordeiro took pains to emphasize that the new event would be a singular tournament, and not meant to replace existing events like the Copa América or the Gold Cup, which would continue separately. Conmebol, which will contest this year’s Copa in June and July in Brazil, said last year that it was planning to shift the Copa América to a quadrennial schedule starting in 2020, to coincide with UEFA’s European Championship. Concacaf holds its own regional championship, the Gold Cup, in odd-numbered years; this year’s Gold Cup matches will be played in the United States, Costa Rica and at least one Caribbean nation.For next summer, though, Cordeiro is proposing a larger, intercontinental event in the United States. The event could fill a gap in the global soccer calendar — at the moment, the Euros are the only major championship scheduled for that summer — but despite the millions being offered, it is unclear how South American and Conmebol officials will react to a tournament that would conflict with their Copa América plans.The Copa América has included guest teams for years; Mexico and the United States have participated in it several times, and this year it will include Japan and Qatar.For the United States, though, the event could have several positives. FIFA is expected to choose the dozen or so host cities for the 2026 World Cup in the next two years, so the tournament could be a chance for the 17 finalists to make their case for inclusion. It also would offer meaningful competition for the United States men’s national team as it heads into qualifying for the 2022 World Cup; that process began later than hoped because the search for the team’s head coach, Gregg Berhalter, was delayed, first by the World Cup bid and then by the search for a general manager to run the national team program. Hired in December, Berhalter has coached only two friendlies to date as he prepares for this summer’s Gold Cup.If the proposed tournament with Conmebol does not come to fruition, U.S. Soccer could still press ahead with a new event, possibly a scaled-down tournament involving teams from other continents.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySidebarBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court, which is pretty squeamish about vulgar language, recently agreed to hear a case about whether the owner of a line of clothing sold under the brand name FUCT can register a trademark for the term.An official at the Patent and Trademark Office said no, reasoning that the term sounded like the past tense of the most versatile curse word. A 1905 federal law allows the office to refuse to register trademarks that are “immoral, deceptive or scandalous.”Erik Brunetti, the owner of the clothing line, appealed to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, arguing that the name stood for “Friends U Can’t Trust.” That “stretches credulity,” the board ruled.Basing its decision on Google search results and entries in Urban Dictionary, the board rejected Mr. Brunetti’s application, calling his brand name a “phonetic twin” of the curse word.A federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., agreed that the term was scandalous. But it said the law barring scandalous trademarks ran afoul of the First Amendment.“The trademark at issue is vulgar,” Judge Kimberly A. Moore wrote for a divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, a specialized court in Washington.“The First Amendment, however,” Judge Moore wrote, “protects private expression, even private expression which is offensive to a substantial composite of the general public.”That conclusion was bolstered by a 2017 Supreme Court decision striking down a neighboring clause in the same part of the trademark law. That one denied federal trademark protection to terms that disparage people, living or dead, along with “institutions, beliefs or national symbols.”Mr. Brunetti’s lawyers said that the 2017 decision, Matal v. Tam, made his case an easy one. “Disparaging marks are refused because they are offensive,” they told the appeals court. “Scandalous marks are refused because they are offensive.”If one clause is unconstitutional, they argued, then so is the other.The Supreme Court apparently thinks the question is more complicated, as it agreed this month to hear the government’s appeal. If nothing else, the court can use Mr. Brunetti’s case to sort out just what it meant to say in the 2017 decision, which ruled for an Asian-American dance-rock band called the Slants. (The decision also effectively allowed the Washington Redskins football team to register its trademarks.)The justices were unanimous in ruling that the prohibition on disparaging trademarks violated the First Amendment. But they managed to split 4 to 4 in most of their reasoning, making it hard to analyze how the decision applies in the context of the ban on scandalous terms.Still, the two blocs of justices did appear to agree that a central flaw in the ban on disparagement was that it took sides or, in legal language, was not viewpoint neutral. Criticism was forbidden; praise was not.The first battleground in the new case, then, will be whether a ban on vulgar words and the like is viewpoint neutral.The government, defending the law, said it barred entire categories of speech — “vulgar terms and graphic sexual images” — but did not discriminate against particular viewpoints within those categories.Mr. Brunetti’s lawyers disagreed. “Marks favorable to religion are allowed, but marks critical of religion or likely to cause religious controversy are prohibited,” they wrote. “Marks about input into the digestive system are approved, while marks about output are rejected. Polite humor is fine, raunchy humor is scandalous. Raising babies is sweet, making babies is disgusting.”The trademark appeals board, moreover, took account of the views expressed on Mr. Brunetti’s website and products, saying they “contain strong, and often explicit, sexual imagery that objectifies women and offers degrading examples of extreme misogyny.” That sounded like viewpoint discrimination, Mr. Brunetti’s lawyers wrote.In urging the Supreme Court to hear its appeal, the federal government argued that Mr. Brunetti remained free to use and protect his trademark and had lost only the benefits of federal trademark registration, including some advantages in litigation over the validity of the mark.“The scandalous-marks provision simply reflects Congress’s judgment that the federal government should not affirmatively promote the use of graphic sexual images and vulgar terms by granting them the benefits of registration,” the government’s brief said. The trademark Mr. Brunetti sought to register, the brief said, was “equivalent to the vulgar word for which it is a homonym.”Some of the marks the office has turned down are pretty vile. “Although we are hesitant to reproduce these marks in a public brief,” the government told the appeals court, “we think it is important that the court have the context that only concrete examples can provide.”The government has not yet provided the Supreme Court with those examples, probably because the justices try to keep their distance from vulgar terms and images.In 2008 and 2012, when the Supreme Court heard arguments over the use of curse words on broadcast television, the court’s clerk sent word to the lawyers that they were not to use them. When the justices hear Mr. Brunetti’s case this spring, it is likely that the trademark he seeks to register will go unmentioned.A previous version of this article referred incorrectly to the etymology of the “most versatile” curse word. It is of Middle English origin, not Anglo-Saxon.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersWe asked readers to discuss how the people they met and classes they took influenced them, and how much going to an elite school matters.To the Editor:My admittance to Stanford was my golden ticket to a college nicknamed “Paradise,” where learning from Pulitzer Prize-winning authors and being mentored by paradigm-changing scientists were normal. Stanford opened doors I never even knew existed, having grown up in a small, agricultural town in Northern California. A little thing called an “endowment” changed my life. When I graduated in 2018, I was no longer a small-town girl, but rather a young adult, itching to contribute something meaningful. Stanford transformed my flimsy desire to become a doctor into a fiery passion to become a leader in health care — all because I had witnessed this leadership in my mentors and friends.Today, I still question what it means to attend an “elite” college, especially as admissions scandals unfold. But what I do know is that these colleges can open doors for those who want to rectify flawed systems and are hungry to elevate others. Small-town girls like me just need the exposure. To those on admissions committees: Admit more of us. Doing so can improve communities and generations to come.Shin Mei ChanSan FranciscoTo the Editor:I have a vivid recollection of the conversation that occurred in the parking lot of an independent prep school where I taught years ago. A colleague asked me, somewhat incredulously, “Wait a minute — you went to a state college?” There was a pause as I nodded in the affirmative, then came the kicker: “Oh, but I thought you were brilliant.”In places such as these, and too often in the job market, attending an “elite” college matters very much. The fact is, it shouldn’t matter at all. My dad was retired; we could not afford an expensive college. I earned a full-tuition scholarship and paid my own way. I pursued graduate work at an “elite” engineering school and earned an advanced degree from a large university. Neither was inherently superior in terms of the education it delivered.The college experiences that shaped my life the most centered around getting to know people from diverse backgrounds and learning to solve problems independently. Where or if a person went to college should matter far less than what a person has learned and become along the way in life.George WhittemorePrinceton, Mass.To the Editor:My community college experience saved my life. After graduating from high school, moving around and floundering in minimum-wage jobs, I returned to my hometown to live with my parents. I was depressed and attempted suicide. During my recovery, I started attending the community college in my hometown. At first, I resisted enrolling in our local community college because I felt there was a stigma. But when I did, I found a menagerie of students from all walks of life and professors who were deeply passionate about their students.Class by class, the depression that had held me down for so long began to lift. I joined the honors program and then helped mentor other students. I presented at an undergraduate research conference. Along the way, I met my fiancé and built a network of peers and mentors who helped me get where I am today.I cannot emphasize enough the importance of community colleges. Their support systems, small and tight-knit communities, and affordability are truly unrivaled. Today, I am working to destigmatize the college experience I owe everything to.Sarah OlsonCorvallis, Ore.The writer will be an undergraduate transfer student at Oregon State University in the fall.To the Editor:I arrived for my freshman year at Yale still wondering why I had been admitted. I was delighted and humbled by my access to all the resources, human and physical, that a great and prestigious university has to offer. I wish I could do it again, but as an adult. Yale was an amazing treat, like being taken on an exotic vacation.My diploma must have conferred a little prestige when I went looking for a job, but that’s all. In my 45 years in the working world, I always saw employees judged on cooperation and performance, not pedigree. In fact, being thought of as an intellectual fancy pants became an obstacle once in a while.A degree from a fancy school is like having a fancy suit. Delightful if you care about such things, but overpriced, overhyped and meaningless in our universal quest toward living a life we love.We are all blessed with immense and unearned privilege the day we are born. It is called being an American.Philip BowlesSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Duke. That single word changed my life in 1966. It’s right there on my license plate. DUKEMD. I had never been south of Washington, D.C. I had not even visited the campus of my “safety” school in North Carolina. I was going to Yale. Except I didn’t get in.I found myself in a foreign land of segregated restaurants, hushpuppies that you ate, not wore, alpaca sweaters, tassel loafers, ties at football games and something called Brunswick stew. I also discovered that people with thick Southern accents could run rings around me in chemistry class. And I thought I was smart!I was pre-med, but I took many mandatory liberal arts courses. Thank goodness I did. It was in Religion 2 that I first read the New Testament and in psychology that I read Freud. Those classes left the biggest impressions on me as they opened my horizons to novel (for me) ways of thinking.I owe the rest of my 50 years, including meeting my wife in Duke Medical School, to that very foreign land in Durham, N.C. Did it matter that I went to Duke? I bet my life it did.Leonard A. ZwellingBellaire, Tex.To the Editor:I graduated in 1957 from a competitive public high school in Brooklyn. After my brother entered Swarthmore in 1951 when I was 11, my mother began grooming me and pressuring me to get admitted there, too. I worked hard academically, became an editor of a school publication, and took tutoring lessons all to prevent the catastrophe of being rejected.I did get into Swarthmore, and during my first semester began to experience the incapacitating depressions that would haunt me for the rest of my life. I still remember clearly my first visit home at Thanksgiving. I was riding the IRT subway to Brooklyn and looking at the other riders and thinking, “I wonder if any of these people are smart enough to go to Swarthmore, but I’m sure they are all happier than I am.”Elsa PrigozySlingerlands, N.Y.To the Editor:Can four years change your life? I arrived on the Brandeis campus in the late summer of 1982, a fresh-faced kid from a small town in upstate New York. During my time at school I met the woman who would become my wife. Made friends who are still my closest. Became a Deadhead. Partied a lot (sorry, Mom and Dad!). Studied a bit. Began playing guitar.I learned how big the world actually is, and realized for the first time how much a part of that world I was. My mind grew, opened up. My heart changed. I became, essentially and fundamentally, who I am today.One conversation with a professor sticks with me. I was a middling student. He grabbed me after class and we talked for maybe five minutes. I don’t remember exactly what he said. It had something to do with my potential, with something he saw in me that I didn’t see. I walked out of his office and thought of myself in a different way. Suddenly there was an intellectual curiosity, almost a kind of muse, that I am still following. I wonder if he ever knew?(Rabbi) Steve SchwartzBaltimoreTo the Editor:I was accepted to M.I.T. as a transfer student in 1975. It is hard to overestimate the impact of that elite name on the undergraduate degree I earned there in mechanical engineering. People’s response to me changes when they hear I graduated from M.I.T. It’s like an automatic in. Forty years later it is still featured prominently at the top of my résumé.Gail Whoriskey ZwerlingSomerville, Mass.To the Editor:I earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from South Dakota State University in the 1990s. Immediately after graduating I moved to the East Coast, where many people I met couldn’t find South Dakota on a map and had certainly never heard of the university. I was able to find jobs with good companies in various large cities and to build a decent career. After a few years in the work force, it seemed to matter more where I had worked than where I went to college. I was probably not called in to interview by some companies because I hadn’t attended a prestigious university, but there are plenty of great employers who look at more than alma mater. All that said, I’ve seen how attending certain schools opens many doors. It’s not a guarantee of success, but there’s no denying that graduates of top schools have a leg up.I have a 2-year-old and I already think about where she’ll go to college. It will ultimately be her choice, but I will strongly suggest elite institutions. Despite my own positive experience and my desire for it to not matter, it absolutely does.Jennifer Healy KeintzEden, S.D.To the Editor:My undergraduate college experience was scattered, extraordinary and rich. The first year was spent at the College of St. Benedict in central Minnesota, where my eyes were opened to the Benedictines’ world of history and literature. Sister Colman cast me in Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” and I fell in love with the theater.The next year I studied with the Franciscans at the College of Saint Teresa in Winona, Minn. Sister Bernetta’s huge graphic representation of Dante’s “Inferno,” which occupied a whole wall and an entire semester of study, will stay with me until I die.My last two years were spent at the University of Minnesota, where professors like John Berryman, Saul Bellow, William Van O’Connor and Robert Penn Warren were astonishing me daily. A new world opened. I began to question everything, and to embrace learning as a means to a fulfilling life.As Rilke says in “Letters to a Young Poet”: “Try to love the questions themselves. ... Do not now seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything.”Judith Koll HealeyMinneapolisThe writer is a novelist and biographer.To the Editor:I graduated from LeMoyne College in Syracuse, N.Y., in 1989 — good Jesuit liberal arts school, but by no means “elite.” The best professor I had there was a poet named Barbara Clarkson. A student of Auden and Roethke at Bennington College, she taught us how to write and be passionate about poetry. Her office was in the basement next to the janitor’s closet. She smoked cigars, ashing them into a cracked teacup she kept on her desk. I still read and write poetry today, and it’s because of her.This is college to me: not so much where you go, but whom you meet once you get there.Michael TuckerBath, Me.The writer is the course materials specialist at Bowdoin College.To the Editor:I went to an “elite” college — one of the Seven Sisters — in the late 1950s when they were all single-sex schools. I confess to have attended only to prove to my parents, my friends and myself that I could “get in.” Although I made several lifelong friendships and, because of a captivating professor in the music department, developed a love for music that sustains me to this day, I was far too immature to benefit from the potentially excellent education that I neglected to take advantage of.Although I confess to having enjoyed the cachet evoked by my school’s name, I’ve often regretted that I didn’t attend a large coed school with football and basketball games (and parties) to attend — or wished that a “gap year” had been available so that I could have had a year to experience the real world before being immersed in an ivory tower that, perhaps at one year older, I would have appreciated more.Peggy SweeneySarasota, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Trump campaign floated a proposal for a wholesale 5G network. It’s politically expedient but still a great idea.By Kevin WerbachMr. Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, served as an adviser on telecommunication policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Trump re-election campaign’s wireless open access proposal was a poorly vetted scheme possibly intended to score political points. It was squelched almost immediately after it became public, as shocked White House staff members complained that it contradicted the administration’s support for competing wireless networks. The twist? Open access wireless is actually a terrific idea. Some forward-thinking Democrats and public interest advocates have been pushing it for decades.The concept, promoted by Republican operatives such as Newt Gingrich and Karl Rove, is for a network supporting fifth-generation (5G) wireless technology to operate on a wholesale basis. Carriers such as AT&T, Comcast and Verizon could buy capacity. So could anyone else: Apple, Amazon, Walmart, Uber or small operators serving rural areas. No company could use exclusive control over spectrum to block competition.Last year, a leaked National Security Council presentation called for nationalization of 5G networks to improve cybersecurity and better compete against China. The proposal was ignominiously killed and its author left the White House. The Trump re-election campaign’s proposal wisely dropped the government takeover. It shifted the focus to wholesale access, which could be overseen by an independent nonprofit organization, like the independent system operators that manage electricity markets. Today’s cellphones use fourth-generation wireless technology, or 4G. 5G, a set of standards under development, promises higher speeds, improved coverage and better support for new technologies such as augmented reality, autonomous vehicles and connected sensors in all types of devices. 5G networks require denser construction of towers, reducing the distance between a tower and each device. To make 5G a reality, companies and consumers around the world will have to invest hundreds of billions of dollars over the next decade to upgrade hardware, phones and networks. The countries leading the way could reap huge economic benefits.The December arrest in Canada of a top official of Huawei, China’s biggest communications hardware provider, raised the stakes considerably. Meng Wanzhou is accused of committing fraud to help Huawei evade sanctions against Iran. The United States is pressuring its allies to ban Huawei from building their 5G networks on national security grounds.Those moves will not, however, accelerate 5G deployment in the United States. The Chinese government aggressively coordinates and promotes 5G activity, which is proceeding at a breakneck pace. China Tower, for example, added 460 wireless tower sites per day in 2017, more than ten times the rate of American companies, according to a report by Deloitte.The view of American policymakers, which has been consistent through at least four administrations, is that competition among wireless operators is superior to heavy-handed government initiatives. Nevermind that while American wireless providers have a strong track record on innovation, prices for consumers are high by global standards, and the so-called free market is actually an oligopoly of four major carriers that could soon fall to three. Way back in 1995, a Columbia University economist, Eli Noam, proposed an alternative: a wholesale spectrum provider that sold capacity to all. Over the next few years, some progressives (myself included) argued that cable broadband networks should be subject to a similar open access mandate. And in 2010, as the Federal Communications Commission developed the National Broadband Plan, a team led by the Harvard legal scholar Yochai Benkler made a detailed case for wholesale sharing. The idea was shot down each time amid furious industry opposition. Why would the Trump campaign endorse open access? Rivada Networks, a politically connected firm that counts Peter Thiel, a prominent Trump donor, among its investors, appears to be positioning itself for the lucrative contract to provide the technology for such a system. Mr. Trump’s political advisers see the open access plan as a way to improve wireless service in rural areas, a gift to the president’s base.These motivations should not obscure the value of open access. The communications industry has already shown that a competitive open market sometimes can’t develop without government action. The F.C.C. had to prevent phone companies from squelching internet service providers, and many companies that develop online applications face potential blocking of their services and discrimination by broadband operators. The primary way the government makes wireless spectrum available today is through exclusive licensing to the highest bidder. That can make it difficult for companies that provide niche services such as telemedicine and smart electric grids, or that serve less populous areas, which the big national carriers often ignore.Even some architects of the current system are reconsidering. Peter Cramton, for example, helped more than a dozen countries design spectrum auctions. He’s now Rivada’s chief economist. As Mr. Cramton and his co-author, Linda Doyle, wrote in 2017, wholesale open access offers the best hope to break the wireless oligopoly while also using spectrum more efficiently.They were right. Making capacity available in real time at market prices limits hoarding and encourages innovation. Unleashing our brilliant start-up ecosystem through such market mechanisms, along with opportunities for unlicensed access to wireless capacity, is America’s best hope to beat China in 5G.But a poorly managed implementation could create a greedy wholesale monopolist, or turn wireless access into a political football, as is the disastrous fate of Australia’s open access fiber network. And the details of implementation are not this administration’s strong suit.There is also no guarantee that rural wireless providers will rush in to take advantage of the opportunity. A wholesale system will require careful oversight and a long-term commitment by the government. The political campaign’s rapid walk-back does not inspire confidence.Nonetheless, tech-savvy Democrats should welcome the embrace of their open access vision. Even if it means being more supportive of a Trump campaign position than the White House. Kevin Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, is the author of “The Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust.” He served as an adviser on telecommunications policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuIn less than two minutes, the men and boys in Gillette’s new ad engage in a panoply of bad behavior: bullying, fighting, discrimination, sexual harassment and more. A line of them, standing behind smoke wafting up from their grills, recites, “Boys will be boys will be boys will be boys.”“Boys will be boys”? Isn’t it time we stopped excusing bad behavior? Re-think and take action by joining us at https://t.co/giHuGDEvlT. #TheBestMenCanBe pic.twitter.com/hhBL1XjFVo“Is this the best a man can get?” the ad asks, challenging viewers to confront issues like toxic masculinity and #MeToo and to abandon “the same old excuses.” By the end of the clip, men are challenging catcallers, championing their daughters and breaking up brawls.The company, known for its razors and personal care products, posted the ad on social media on Monday. Within a day, it was the subject of a battle in which support for its message collided with calls for boycotts.The ad, developed by Gillette’s advertising agency, Grey, was defended and praised by the actress Rosanna Arquette, the comedian Pete Dominick, the screenwriter and director Jeffrey Reddick, Arianna Huffington and others.But on social media, one man called it “a condescending ad from a company that relies on men buying their products.” Another wrote that “being a man is not a disease nor a pathology,” adding that “it is grotesque to repeatedly ascribe collective guilt onto half of humanity known as men.”The television personality Piers Morgan railed on Twitter about the ad, calling it “pathetic,” “virtue-signalling” and “a direct consequence of radical feminists” who are “driving a war against masculinity.” He said he had used Gillette razors for his entire adult life but, like the actor James Woods, was considering jumping ship.On YouTube, the ad has been liked more than 1,700 times. But it received more than 10,000 thumbs down votes.Gillette said it had commissioned a study of 1,188 adults and found that the results “emphasize the outsized importance of ‘soft’ skills in today’s modern man.”Soon after Gillette’s ad appeared online, its rival Dollar Shave Club posted a message on Twitter that seemed to welcome new customers. The post was liked more than 4,500 times, compared with a few dozen likes on the company’s other posts.This is not the first time Procter & Gamble, which owns Gillette, has echoed progressive themes in its marketing.The company’s Pantene hair products line once ran a “Strong Is Beautiful” campaign, which featured football players from the New Orleans Saints, the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Dallas Cowboys braiding their daughters’ hair. The #LikeAGirl campaign for the Always feminine hygiene products, which encourages girls to face the fear of failure, shows them playing chess, fencing and drumming.But in taking a position on the idea of toxic masculinity, Gillette and Procter & Gamble could be dealing with a “hot potato,” said Dean Crutchfield, the chief executive of the brand advisory firm Crutchfield & Partners.“If this is just a quick campaign to get some attention, not something they’re weaving into the fabric of their company going forward, it’s going to blow up in their face,” he said. “This is a huge topic and it’s highly sensitive, and I don’t think P. & G. had done anything as explosive as this could be.”Other companies have also inserted themselves into discussions about sexuality, race, culture and other contentious issues.Years ago, Old Spice wanted to convince men that shower gel was masculine while appealing to the women who were actually buying the product. The resulting “Smell like a man, man” campaign is now considered a marketing triumph.Pepsi’s 2017 ad featuring Kendall Jenner was also memorable, but mainly because of the intense criticism it faced borrowing imagery from the Black Lives Matter movement, watering it down and then using it to sell soda. The company pulled the ad and apologized.Ram trucks met a similar reception last year when they used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in a Super Bowl ad.Gillette is a giant in the shaving industry, but its foothold is shrinking as scrappy competitors offering disposable razor subscriptions capture younger consumers. Dollar Shave Club was acquired by Unilever for $1 billion in 2016. Harry’s, another razor purveyor, raised $112 million from investors last year to expand beyond men’s grooming.Sales for Gillette’s grooming segment slipped 1 percent in its most recent quarter. The brand, which has mistakenly mailed free razors intended for 18-year-old men to middle-aged women, has tried to stay fresh by experimenting with personalized 3-D-printed razor handles and designing blades for sensitive skin.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSo a compelling two-year run of American political and cultural theater comes to a deeply unsatisfying conclusion. Colin Kaepernick, a once brilliant young quarterback, chose to take a knee for his beliefs and endured apparent blackballing by the most powerful sports league in North America.It would be churlish to criticize this man for taking an unspecified financial settlement and signing a nondisclosure agreement with the National Football League after he had accused the league’s teams of colluding to keep him out. He sacrificed for his beliefs and with a dignified use of free speech, that grandest of American traditions, he came to personify a coming of political age across several sports.He persevered despite sprays of vitriol from this nation’s president, Donald J. Trump, who in 2017 used the specter of this black man to stir resentments.“Wouldn’t you love to see one of those N.F.L. owners, when someone disrespects our flag, to say: ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’ ” Trump told a crowd in Alabama.It was catnip for the vastly white crowds that roared in disgust over Kaepernick.It is galling that Kaepernick and his former teammate Eric Reid, who joined him in the protest and legal action, must remain mum about the corruptions of the industrial complex known as the N.F.L. The owners almost certainly conspired to blackball Kaepernick, ensuring that he would never throw another pass in the league.As he sought to sign on with a new team for the season after his protest began, and less than five years after he had taken the 49ers to the Super Bowl, owners came up with ever more pathetic excuses for refusing to sign a quarterback so swift and so strong of arm.Now he can say nothing about that travesty. It feels a bit like the Freedom Riders integrating a lunch counter and agreeing not to talk about it.I called Ira Glasser, a former director of the American Civil Liberties Union who is also a deep-dyed sports fan. He resolutely declined to second-guess Kaepernick for surveying the ruin of his career and probably taking a large chunk of money.“He was a star who burst upon the scene explosively, and maybe he extracted as much justice as he could from this situation,” Glasser said. “But it does leave a stain on the N.F.L. that ought not to be eradicated in the public mind.”Kaepernick did not burn a flag or even hold a proud fist aloft. It’s a measure of the subtle nature of his protest that fans and sportswriters went three preseason games before they noticed that, oh yeah, Kaepernick was sitting out the national anthem.When they asked the young quarterback about it, he talked about police brutality and too many dead black Americans: “To me this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.”In the next game and thereafter, Kaepernick took a knee instead, at the suggestion of a military veteran. Yet the whirlwind of anger somehow gained in force.In the first weeks of that season, I flew to San Francisco to draw his measure. To step into the 49ers postgame locker room was to find a remarkably composed man with the support of many teammates. He walked out of the shower that night and slipped a form-fitting shirt over a lithe, tattooed torso. Then he turned to a bristling array of microphones and cameras and calmly answered every question.Are you proud, a reporter asked him, of your role in stirring players around the N.F.L. — several knelt or raised fists Sunday during the various anthems — to protest? Kaepernick, a new arrival to the world of political activism, shook his head. No airs, man, no airs.“No, no,” he said. “This movement wasn’t for me. As I’ve researched these things, as I’ve seen more and more, it’s not right.”He spoke instead of how social media and reading and looking at photographs online had driven home to him how many blacks were dying at the hands of the police.“You see things instantly, day after day, and it’s hard,” he told us before citing some of the casualties. “For me, I couldn’t see another hashtag Sandra Bland, hashtag Tamir Rice, hashtag Walter Scott.”“At what point,” he continued, “do we take a stand?”It was dissent, yes, and as unthreatening and American as you could find in a country so often given over now to partisan furies. As Glasser, the civil libertarian, said to me Friday, “If that’s not acceptable to this country, what is it that we are supposed to be fighting for?”Colin Kaepernick the football player may soon move into history’s mists. Kaepernick the human rights activist, the man Amnesty International named an ambassador of conscience, may just be coming into his own.You hope only that this young man walked away with a mother lode from the league without shame.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaMIAMI — Against the wishes of European soccer leaders, FIFA pushed through plans for a revamped World Cup of clubs featuring 24 teams at a meeting of its governing council on Friday. The decision ended a debate that had lasted a year, while at the same time raised doubts about the caliber of participants in a major new competition championed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino.The remaking of the competition from winter afterthought to potential summer moneymaker — a replacement for the Confederations Cup, an unpopular national-team competition usually held a year before the World Cup — has led to a major breakdown in relations between FIFA and European soccer’s governing body, UEFA. All the European members at the FIFA meeting voted against the plan for the new tournament on Friday.European club teams, whose participation will be critical to the success of the reimagined Club World Cup, reiterated their opposition to the event only minutes after FIFA made its announcement that it had been approved. The European Club Association, an umbrella body for the continent’s top teams, said its members would not participate in the event, even though FIFA’s plan includes slots for eight European teams.Infantino, though, described himself as “a happy president,” saying he was confident that after further talks, opposition to the event would subside and the world’s top teams would take part. He pointed out that the event — held every four years — could bring in billions of extra dollars to FIFA’s coffers, which currently benefit from more than $6 billion from each World Cup.“We hope all the greatest teams will participate,” Infantino said at a news conference. “The best teams should have this world platform.”The main opposition to the plans largely relates to adding more events to soccer’s already busy global calendar, with fears that even more games could burn out top players, or leave them susceptible to injuries. UEFA said any changes should wait until 2024, when a new comprehensive schedule for global soccer is set to be approved.The Club World Cup plan had led to an almost complete breakdown in the relationship between Infantino and Aleksander Ceferin, the UEFA president. The men had not held talks for a year since a meeting last year in Colombia during which Infantino first unveiled the proposal. They did, however, meet for an hour on Thursday morning, where Ceferin outlined UEFA’s continued opposition.In other news Friday, the FIFA Council agreed to push ahead with plans to expand the World Cup in Qatar to 48 teams, an undertaking fraught with complexity amid an ongoing diplomatic and economic standoff between Qatar and a group of its Gulf neighbors.A study conducted by FIFA recently found Qatar, a desert state smaller than Connecticut, could not host an event with 16 more teams on its own. Unless the blockade — led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates — is lifted, only Oman and Kuwait could be considered viable partners in the region. But both countries would be required to spend significant amounts on the infrastructure required to meet FIFA standards.Greg Clarke, a FIFA vice president from England, told the meeting that FIFA must consider the human rights records of any additional host country, according to people present at the meeting. Qatar has been forced to adopt new workers regulations amid a backlash over its treatment of construction workers building the stadiums there. That scrutiny would likely shift to its neighbors, Clarke told the council members.“How can you not think of human rights wherever you go? It must be an issue,” said Evelina Christillin, a FIFA Council member from Italy.A delegation from Qatar, which was awarded the World Cup almost a decade ago, was also present in Miami. Hassan al-Thawadi, the executive responsible for 2022 World Cup preparations, said Qatar remained open-minded about expansion, provided it benefited Qatar as much as it did FIFA. He failed to answer when asked to provide one example of a benefit that his country could derive from an expanded tournament.“We are open to exploring the options,” al-Thawadi said, adding it would be a “big, big challenge” to host a 48-team event if the blockade, now in its second year, continued. FIFA must make a final decision at a meeting of its 211 members in Paris in June; qualifying for the tournament begins that month, and teams and federations would need to know how many places are available.Should the World Cup be enlarged, FIFA would need to play six matches per day to ensure the tournament can be completed within 28 days, a stipulation it agreed with European clubs after moving the tournament to November to avoid the searing Gulf summer. That would mean rest periods for some teams of as little as 48 hours, and a potential risk to athlete’ health, according to the largest players’ union, FIFPro“At international competitions like the World Cup, the minimum rest period between matches must be maintained at 72 hours,” FIFPro said in a statement.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesNew genetic analysis shows that an underground parasitic mold in Michigan is about 2,500 years old and has a low mutation rate. By JoAnna KleinThe scientists first reported finding it in 1992: a giant mushroom that weighed as much as a blue whale and sprawled across more than 30 acres of forest in Michigan’s upper peninsula. It wasn’t some Alice-in-Wonderland-type toadstool but a 1,500-year-old parasitic mold, with growing tentacles that foraged beneath the soil for roots and decaying wood to devour.Nearly 30 years later, the same scientists — using new technology for genetic analysis — wanted to know whether they had properly measured this unusual example of fungal life.“We made this outlandish prediction that the fungus is more than 1,000 years old,” said James Anderson, now a retired mycologist and emeritus professor at the University of Toronto. “And so an obvious outcome of that, is after three decades, it ought still be there, and if not, we’d have some explaining to do.”Recently they published what they uncovered in Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. Their original humongous fungus, Armillaria gallica, is even older and bigger than first estimated: the 2,500-year-old parasite spreads across 180 acres of forest. And its genome harbors a mysterious survival strategy: an extremely low mutation rate.From 2015 through 2017, Dr. Anderson and his colleagues tested soil from nearly 250 sites on the peninsula. They connected dots on a forest-wide canvas and painted an impressionist portrait of this monster beneath the dirt.And it had some surprising features.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]First, it covered more space than first measured.Second, based on observations of how much it grew over a season, the scientists figured the fungus had to be 1,000 years older than they had originally estimated.And when they began considering that age against their genetic analysis, something seemed strange.As an organism grows and cells start splitting and copying DNA during mitosis — which is how they make new, identical body cells — you expect to see mutations emerge in copies that are passed on from one generation to the next. But this old beast harbored only about 160 mutations, orders of magnitude lower than expected.More than two millenniums was plenty of time for cells to divide, copy and paste their DNA and send it — mistakes and all — from one generation to the next. But to get so few mutations, the fungus must have had very few cell divisions, which is crazy for a giant fungus made of microscopic cells. The researchers couldn’t measure how many cell divisions separate the bits of fungus spanning the length of nine football fields side-by-side, and so they couldn’t measure the mutation rate directly. It should have been huge, but it wasn’t.“I think it’s a really interesting result with cutting edge technology, and it opens up new questions about how organisms can remain stable over that length of time,” said Tom Bruns, a fungal ecologist at the University of California, Berkeley who reviewed the study.But he and Dr. Anderson agree that it’s still unclear how the fungus genome ended up this way.Their paper offers some speculation. The infecting tips of the fungi’s rhizomes could have low rates of cell division. Or the fungus could be really good at repairing damage inside its cells, passing healthy traits onto the next generation. Even more bizarrely, the cells may be selective about which copies of DNA they send on to the next generation. Maybe it’s a combination of these factors — or something else entirely, Dr. Anderson said.Dr. Bruns said it was also possible that the analysis missed some mutations. When they do show up within a big pool of cells, they’re so rare, they’re presumed to be errors.But if this extremely low mutation rate is indeed the case — and it seems to be, according to Dr. Bruns, it poses other interesting questions.How widespread among fungi and other life is this low mutation rate? What can it tell us about cancer, which seems to be on the opposite end of the genetic stability spectrum? And if this thing is so good at living, who wins in an apocalypse: the cockroach or Armillaria?“I’ll bet on Armillaria,” Dr. Bruns said.An earlier version of this article misstated the time period between the two reports on the giant fungus. It has been nearly 30 years since the first, not more than 30 years.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherNot every Super Bowl is super, and we’ll find out if this year’s edition fits the tag on Feb. 3. But we do know some of what is in store.One of those things is (no surprise) the New England Patriots, who will be appearing in their third consecutive Super Bowl and fourth in five years. The Rams will be the first team to represent Los Angeles in the game since 1984.Those are not the only records and oddities about Super Bowl LIII.Sean McVay, who took over the Rams last season after a meteoric rise as an N.F.L. assistant, turns 33 this week, which will make him the youngest head coach in Super Bowl history. He breaks the record held by Mike Tomlin, who was 36 when his Pittsburgh Steelers won the big game in 2009.At 66, Bill Belichick will not be the oldest Super Bowl coach, as Marv Levy went to the game with the Bills at age 67 and 68. But Belichick could become the oldest winner, breaking the record held by Tom Coughlin, who was 65 when the Giants beat the Patriots in 2012.Tom Brady is 41 and will become the oldest Super Bowl starting quarterback. He breaks the record set by, well, Tom Brady last year.At 24, Jared Goff is not the youngest Super Bowl starter, but he’s not far off. Dan Marino was the youngest, at 23 years 127 days, and Ben Roethlisberger was just behind him at 23 years 340 days.Both conference championship games went to overtime; the Rams beat the New Orleans Saints, 26-23, and the Patriots beat the Kansas City Chiefs, 37-31. They were the first overtime conference championships since 2015, when the Seattle Seahawks rallied to beat the Green Bay Packers. It was the first time ever that both conference games went to overtime.Both lower-seeded teams won, playing on the road. It’s only the second time that has happened in this century: The other instance was in 2013, when the fourth-seeded Baltimore Ravens beat the Patriots and the second-seeded San Francisco 49ers beat the Falcons.When it comes to offense, both teams rank among the N.F.L. elite. The Rams are second in points scored and yards per play and third in net yards per pass. The Patriots are just a bit behind at fourth, eighth and sixth.But defensively the Rams did not put up great numbers, ranking just 20th in points allowed, 28th in yards per play and 23rd in yards per pass. The Patriots had better, though not great, rankings at seventh, 20th and fifth.It adds up to a potentially high-scoring Super Bowl. The oddsmakers have set the over/under at somewhere in the 57-58 range, and depending on where it lands it could be the highest in history. The record came in 2017, when the Patriots-Falcons game was set at 57. (It went over.)It’s a Super Bowl rematch, sort of. In 2002, the Patriots beat the Rams, 20-17. But it was the St. Louis Rams, in Year 7 of a 21-year exile from Los Angeles. Some things don’t ever seem to change though. That game’s M.V.P. was Tom Brady.The Roman numerals have reached LIII, or 53. You could also call it Super Bowl 110101 if you prefer binary numbers or Super Bowl 35 if hexadecimal is more your thing.It’s the first prime-number Super Bowl since XLVII (Ravens over 49ers, 34-31.)Among the athletes who have worn No. 53: Don Drysdale, Harry Carson, Artis Gilmore and Darryl Dawkins.It’s the third Super Bowl in Atlanta. The first two took place in the now-imploded Georgia Dome: The Cowboys dealt the Bills the fourth of their four consecutive losses in 1994, and the Rams (again in St. Louis) beat the Titans in the 2000 game in which Kevin Dyson came one yard short of a game-tying touchdown as time expired.Pop band Maroon 5 and rappers Big Boi and Travis Scott will perform the halftime show. Up with People, which headlined the show four times, is still awaiting its first appearance since 1986.Gladys Knight will sing the national anthem, a year after Pink did the honors. Knight will join an odd mix of stars to carry out the duties, a list that includes Lady Gaga (2016), Billy Joel (1989 and 2007), Cher (1999), Kathie Lee Gifford (1995) and Al Hirt (1970).Gamblers are saying the anthem performance will last 1 minute 50 seconds. You can bet on it. Or on whether a player will kneel (5-1 against). Or if a fan runs on the field (15-1). Or the color of Adam Levine of Maroon 5’s shirt (Black is the favorite) or whether a Coke or Pepsi commercial will appear first, or — well, you get the idea.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongScott Van Pelt closed an episode of “SportsCenter” last month with a two-minute monologue about the 31st anniversary of his father’s death. Strengthened by two friends who had recently lost their parents, Van Pelt spoke passionately about running from grief, and encouraged everyone to do the opposite — to articulate their pain so they could overcome it.The segment went viral. It embodied the essential traits of Van Pelt’s version of ESPN’s flagship show — sensitivity, nuance and the courage to be vulnerable — that help him connect with viewers.“It’s a great reminder of the power of the microphone we hold in our hands,” Van Pelt said.But that power is changing — disappearing, even — as television viewing habits change and sports media develop new ways to bring fans what they want when they want it. (Now!) That means what was once a premier placement in TV sports — the anchor desk — is not the high perch it used to be. It is not clear anymore what it is at all.Not so long ago, sports fans operated on a schedule dictated by the programming that was available on TV. The sports highlight show, “SportsCenter” being the most popular one, was appointment viewing.It was where sports fans went to see the highlights they could only read about in the newspaper. People came to know its anchors: Keith Olbermann, Linda Cohn, Stuart Scott, Robin Roberts, Dan Patrick, to name a few. They complemented the sports clips with their own personalities and, in the case of Scott, redefined the highlight show genre.But today, highlights flood fans’ Twitter timelines immediately: a buzzer beater on loop seconds after it drops through the net; a touchdown from multiple angles before referees have ruled it good. They flood our Instagram feeds thanks to users like House of Highlights, which delivers the day’s most important sports highlights to more than 12 million followers.“SportsCenter,” even with six editions each weekday, can no longer dangle the carrot of providing clips unavailable anywhere else. On most nights, when the highlight package rolls, Van Pelt is telling a majority of the viewers about something they have already seen.“Every person covering sports is trying to figure out the riddle,” Van Pelt said. He asked how a program could deliver highlights “to you in a way that you will want it and convince yourself that you will need it.”Omar Raja, 24, is the founder of House of Highlights. He grew up watching sports highlights on the local news with his father every morning. When Kobe Bryant scored 81 points against the Toronto Raptors in 2006, he did not find out about it until he turned on his TV the next morning.“It’s crazy to think 10 years ago, we had to wait until the next day to find out what happened the night before,” Raja said.Raja’s team can now offer instant access to what everyone is talking about. But Raja thinks traditional and new-age highlights delivery systems can coexist. He still watches “SportsCenter,” after all, especially Van Pelt’s midnight edition.“I don’t really listen to him for the highlights,” Raja said. “I just listen to him for his thoughts on things. He’s a good personality, and he’s charismatic.”When Van Pelt took over as anchor in 2015, he said, he decided to lean on his personality and trust the audience to connect with his curiosity about sports.Per ESPN, Van Pelt has consistently generated higher ratings among 18-to 34-year-old men in his midnight time slot than late-night talk shows on broadcast or cable. Other sports anchors have tried a similar approach, to lesser degrees of success.Jay Onrait and Dan O’Toole’s show on Fox Sports went through several iterations before pivoting toward a late-night show format; it was canceled in 2017. Jemele Hill and Michael Smith were chosen to overhaul the 6 p.m. “SportsCenter,” but the reformatted show — called “SC6” or “The Six” — lasted a little more than a year before it was broken up in 2018. During its run, Hill was criticized for a post to her personal Twitter account about President Trump, and for another about the N.F.L., for which ESPN suspended her.“To ignore the racial component and the climate that they faced would be completely dishonest,” Van Pelt said of Hill and Smith, who are African-American. “They faced challenges that I didn’t face. They also didn’t have the benefits that I have.”Those benefits include a midnight slot that allows Van Pelt to experiment in front of a smaller potential audience, and stronger lead-ins from “Monday Night Football” during the N.F.L. season.Onrait, who now hosts “Jay and Dan” on TSN in Canada at midnight, has adopted the sensibilities of a late-night talk-show host in this turn as a sports anchor.“Personality is what’s going to rule the next phase of television,” Onrait said.Others, such as Skip Bayless of Fox Sports, combine so-called “hot takes” with continuous criticism of high-profile athletes like LeBron James to connect with viewers.“The only thing that really worked at Fox was Skip,” Onrait said. “Nothing was working until Skip showed up. No one got ratings. I know lots of people have made a living out of crapping on the guy, but what he did was bring actual viewers to the network. He was the only one who did that.”In a statement to The New York Times, Norby Williamson, an ESPN executive who oversees “SportsCenter,” pushed back against the idea that the show is becoming obsolete.“We recognize that people have many options for viewing highlights now, but we continue to develop presentations that you’re not going to see anywhere else,” Williamson said. “We’ll show you what happened but also how it happened and why.”While ESPN still sees its network and the “SportsCenter” franchise as vital to the fan’s experience, what really matters is whether viewers will continue to see it this way.Van Pelt knows that reckoning is coming soon.“I keep thinking to myself this is a short window,” Van Pelt said. “It won’t go on forever.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of editions of “SportsCenter” each weekday. There are six, not four.AdvertisementSunday RoutineHer weekends seem as picture-perfect as her Instagram account. The mother of two works out, eats bagels and even gets along famously with her in-laws.Ms. Charnas with her husband, Brandon Charnas, and their older daughter, Ruby.CreditCreditAmy Lombard for The New York TimesSupported byBy Shivani Vora[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]In 2018, Arielle Charnas, who makes her living as a social media influencer, partnered with Nordstrom to create a fashion and accessories line inspired by her style blog, Something Navy. When the department store introduced the collections online last fall, its website crashed. Something Navy’s single-day sales outsold other Nordstrom collaborations, like those with Beyoncé and Rihanna.Ms. Charnas, 31, plans to attend New York Fashion Week, including those for Tom Ford, Khaite, and Ralph Lauren. This means that her 1.1 million Instagram followers will get a glimpse of the runway world, too. She lives in the Flatiron district with her husband, Brandon Charnas, 33, who works in commercial real-estate, and their two daughters, Ruby, 2, Esme, 8 months, and their Cavalier King Charles spaniel, Dylan.15 MINUTES OF PEACE No matter the day of the week, Brandon and I wake up at 7. We don’t hear Ruby and Esme stirring until 7:15, and it’s nice to have a few minutes alone to get ourselves together and make some coffee. Once Esme starts crying, I go get her while Brandon gets Ruby.BAGEL DELIVERY We are big breakfast people and all sit around our kitchen table and eat a proper meal. I order plain bagels from Tal Bagels, which I can’t get enough of, through Postmates a couple times a week, and Ruby and I will often eat those with cream cheese. Brandon usually makes scrambled eggs with peppers and onions. I’ll often purée some fresh fruit for Esme.VIDEO-PERFECT It doesn’t always happen, but I try to get in a morning workout. Luckily, we have a gym in our building, and I’ll go there to meet my trainer Megan Roup, who I have been seeing for two years. It’s a 45-minute session, and we’ll do 15 minutes of toning and 30 minutes of a choreographed dance workout. I film these routines and post them on my Instagram so we’ll do them over and over again until they’re good enough to post.SUNDAYS IN THE PARK Unless it’s snowing or raining, we’ll all head out to one of the several parks around us and spend a couple of hours there. Ruby goes on the swings and slides, and Esme goes on the baby swing. She’s also into watching the big kids play.THREE GENERATIONS Brandon’s parents live on the Upper East Side and come downtown to meet us for Sunday lunch. There are so many great places around us, and it’s hard to pick a spot sometimes. Shake Shack is an easy go-to. Sadelle’s is another favorite. I may eat a bagel again because I am obsessed with them or will get their French toast or one of their salads. I am very very close to my in-laws. They’re so caring and helpful with the kids, and it’s always fun to be with them.SIESTA After lunch, we head back to the apartment. Ruby will sleep for an hour and a half, and Esme will sleep for three hours. Brandon’s parents will come home with us, and we hang out on the couch and talk some more. Or we may watch a movie, or Brandon and his dad will watch football.PLAY Ruby wakes up around 2:30 and is ready to play. She loves playing with Dylan and can’t enough of anything Barbie. She’s also into art, and I’ll sometimes set up her easel for her so she can paint or color. When Esme wakes up, she plays with Dylan, too, or will watch Ruby play.DINNER Occasionally, I find the time to cook, but more often than not, we end up going out to a nearby restaurant. Our favorite is this Greek place Periyali. I get the Greek salad and chicken skewers. We also both get a glass of red wine.COOKIE, TUB, BED Ruby will have a warm chocolate-chip cookie that we bake using premade dough, and then I give them both a bath. Ruby brings all her Barbies into the tub, and Esme hangs out in her bath chair. She goes to sleep around 7, and Ruby gets into bed with me and watches a cartoon or other kids’ movie.SECRET SAUCE With the girls down, Brandon and I climb into bed and watch hours of TV. We love murder mysteries and Marvel movies like “The Avengers.” It sounds strange, but our late-night snack is this chopped salad that our housekeeper makes during the week. It has lettuce, peppers and cucumbers, and Brandon adds in turkey and cheese and whips up this incredible dressing to throw on top. I’ve asked him what’s in it, but he is shady about the recipe. We watch until I fall sleep, which is around 11.If you are not already following Ms. Charnas on Instagram, you can find her @somethingnavy.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnFor a weekend dominated by M. Night Shyamalan, there weren’t many twists at the box office.Universal’s “Glass,” a superhero successor to the director Shyamalan’s “Unbreakable” and “Split” that stars Samuel L. Jackson, Bruce Willis and James McAvoy, sold an estimated $40.6 million in tickets during its first weekend in North American theaters, easily topping the chart at the end of a relatively quiet week.“Glass” completes a trilogy that started in 2000 with “Unbreakable,” a superhero thriller that introduced audiences to David Dunn (Willis), a football player-turned-security guard with superhuman abilities, and Elijah Price (Jackson), a comic-book theorist. While that film was successful at the box office and has since developed a cult following, its sales were modest compared to those of Shyamalan’s previous blockbuster, “The Sixth Sense,” which was the second-highest-grossing movie of 1999.With “Glass,” Universal was likely hoping to combine the cult status of “Unbreakable” with the box-office momentum created by “Split,” which came out in early 2017. The latter movie, which stars McAvoy as a kidnapper with multiple personalities, was a surprise hit, making about $138.3 million domestically during its time in theaters against a production budget of just $9 million, according to Box Office Mojo.“Split” made about $40 million during its opening weekend, so “Glass” is performing comparably — though it seems unlikely that the movie will wildly outpace “Split,” particularly given mixed reviews from critics. (“Glass” has a 36 percent fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes.)In her review for The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the movie “enjoyable,” but wrote that its “air of misterioso quiet and encroaching, consuming terror give way to manly growling, jaw-clenching and vein-popping, and everything falls to pieces in a poorly conceptualized and staged blowout.”STX’s “The Upside,” which was No. 1 in ticket sales last weekend despite the controversy surrounding Kevin Hart, one of its stars, came in second place with about $15.7 million, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data.Aside from “Glass,” the only other newcomer in the top five was Funimation’s “Dragon Ball Super: Broly,” a Japanese anime movie and the latest entry in the long-running “Dragon Ball” franchise, which made $8.7 million during its opening weekend to finish fourth.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyWhen Zion Williamson of Duke went down with a severed shoe and a sprained knee 30 seconds into Wednesday night’s showdown with North Carolina, it was bad news for plenty involved. Williamson now has to deal with an injury. Duke had to play its archrival without its best player and duly lost, 88-72. Nike faced questions about its product’s apparent failure.But ESPN, broadcasting the contest as part of its multibillion-dollar deal with the Atlantic Coast Conference, did just fine. The game’s biggest star was injured for nearly 99 percent of the game, yet on Thursday, the network reported that the rivalry had produced its highest-ever ratings for a weeknight college basketball game.The episode crystallized the economic limitations that N.C.A.A. amateurism and N.B.A. rules impose on Williamson, a preternatural talent, and the unique ways that they limit the income of a unique player.If the N.B.A. did not bar high schoolers from heading straight to the league — a rule that may disappear in a few years — then Williamson could already have been playing for, say, the Atlanta Hawks and making several million dollars on his rookie contract. If N.C.A.A. rules did not prevent players from signing endorsements, Williamson could already have been receiving millions from Nike.However, barring an outright catastrophe, Williamson, the likely top draft pick, will be getting paid, soon and well, and at a time when his economic productivity is even higher than it is today. His specialness, though, obscures what some suggest is the greatest injustice of college sports’ policy of amateurism.In contrast to Williamson and a few other superstars, most players in college basketball are denied the right to cash in during what is very likely their moment of peak economic value.“The top guys are worth a lot — on the order of millions a year,” said Daniel Rascher, a sports economist who has studied the economic value of college athletes. “But the seven, eight, nine guys,” he added, referring to the players further down the depth chart, “are going to be several hundred thousand a year in terms of the incremental revenue they bring to the school.”Take Duke’s Jordan Goldwire. He was a midrated recruit out of high school, and his options besides Duke included midmajor programs such as Eastern Kentucky, Coastal Carolina and Nevada-Las Vegas. He is probably not bound for N.B.A. riches. This season, he has not played at all in three A.C.C. games and has averaged fewer than seven minutes in those he has played in. He played eight minutes against the Tar Heels on Wednesday. But that actually made him an essential contributor to a two-hour broadcast worth a lot of money to Duke, the A.C.C. and ESPN.“If you look at the N.B.A., the guys who don’t play very much still get paid a lot,” Rascher said.Or forget about Duke and think of the players at whichever team makes the N.C.A.A. tournament out of the Big South or the Patriot League. Part of that billion-dollar event’s charm comes from the quirky matchups — and the potential for exciting upsets — when such teams face juggernauts like Duke and Kansas in the early rounds. Players on those teams, too, are producing a real financial return for the N.C.A.A., for its member colleges and for CBS and Turner Sports, even though their abilities will never be remotely so lucrative again. Yet they are prohibited from taking more than a relatively small, prescribed share of that value.Moreover, all of these players, too, are risking futures in professional basketball — more of them than you might think. While fewer than 5 percent of Division I men’s basketball players are drafted into the N.B.A., the N.C.A.A. said last year, around half go on to play pro basketball in some form, such as in foreign leagues. From teams in the five top conferences, the N.C.A.A. added, more than three-quarters of players go on to be paid to play.The college sports establishment’s common rebuttal to these lines of thinking is that not paying the players beyond scholarships and related costs is actually crucial to the popularity of their sports.Last year, in a federal lawsuit challenging the N.C.A.A.’s restrictions on compensation from an antitrust perspective, Mike Aresco, a former sports television executive who is now commissioner of the American Athletic Conference, testified that college players’ amateur status was a feature of their sports’ appeal, not a bug.“It resonated with fans because it wasn’t professionalized at all,” he said, according to a court transcript, while serving as a witness for several conferences and the N.C.A.A. itself. “And it was presented and framed as college students, as college sports.”Among other things, this distinction differentiated college basketball and college football from minor league sports, Aresco said. “And that was very important,” he added, “because minor leagues had never been popular.”He said: “People view college sports separately. And we always maintained that separation.”Rascher was a witness for the plaintiffs in that case, in which a decision is expected any day. His reply to arguments like Aresco’s was to point to the experiment of sorts that took place a few years ago, when the N.C.A.A. permitted colleges to offer athletes funds that included the so-called full cost of attendance. After players began to be “paid” slightly more than they had previously been, college sports’ popularity was not measurably affected.Williamson’s injury in the marquee game of the regular season, particularly so early in the contest, appeared to be a devastating blow to Duke, which entered as a 9-point favorite yet never led once. Being magnanimous, Roy Williams, North Carolina’s colorful coach, acknowledged as much afterward.“Be honest,” he said. “When the big fella goes out of the game, it changes a lot of stuff for them.”Judging from the final score, Williams was right. But be honest: If you looked only at the bottom line, you would not even know that the big fella was gone.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanOn Wednesday afternoon, the lead story on DenverBroncos.com was about Joe Flacco. So were the website’s top three featured videos. The team also posted about Flacco on Twitter and Facebook.All of that happened while Flacco, a Super Bowl-winning quarterback, was still officially a member of the Baltimore Ravens.In the Broncos’ latest attempt to solve their quarterback problems, they are expected to trade for Flacco, but the N.F.L. calendar does not allow the deal to be completed until March. That leaves the team in the awkward position of trying to acknowledge the move without stating that it happened.Breaking down the media reports of a trade for Joe Flacco » https://t.co/m6M6PzM6Kd pic.twitter.com/A6m5qFifgkProvided the deal, first reported by ESPN, does not fall apart, the Broncos will presumably be replacing Case Keenum, the incumbent starter at quarterback.Flacco, 34, got off to a 4-5 start last season with Baltimore before missing some time with an injury, then lost his job because of a remarkable performance by his substitute, Lamar Jackson, whom the Ravens had chosen in the first round of the 2018 draft.Flacco, a first-round pick by the Ravens in 2008, had started 157 of Baltimore’s 163 games leading up to the hip injury that effectively ended his time with the team. His tenure included five 10-win seasons and reached its peak in 2011, when he led a thrilling run through the playoffs that culminated in a win over the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII.The Broncos, who signed Keenum as a free agent last off-season, finished 6-10 in 2018, the third consecutive year in which they failed to make the playoffs.Despite having John Elway, a Hall of Fame quarterback who won two Super Bowls with the Broncos, running the team’s football operations, Denver has struggled considerably at the position in recent years.Peyton Manning was a shell of himself as the Broncos’ quarterback in 2015, but the defense and running game did enough to dominate the Carolina Panthers in Super Bowl 50. A parade of quarterbacks since — Trevor Siemian, Paxton Lynch, Brock Osweiler and Keenum have all started games — have failed to live up to that standard, combining to go 20-28.Now the Broncos appear to be turning to Flacco, who has no guaranteed money left in his contract but has base salaries over the next three years of $18.5 million, $20.25 million and $24.25 millionThe notion that Flacco is an upgrade from Keenum is debatable. In his lone season with Denver, Keenum, 30, completed 62.3 percent of his passes, with 18 touchdowns, 15 interceptions and an adjusted-yards-per-pass figure of 6.1. Those numbers were well below what he had produced as a fill-in starter for Minnesota in the previous season. But the numbers make him, at the very least, competitive with Flacco, who is more than three years older and had 12 touchdowns, six interceptions and 6.4 adjusted yards per pass.Keenum, who is guaranteed $7 million of his $18 million salary next season, will presumably be shopped to other teams.The move, while somewhat questionable for Denver, makes sense for Baltimore. The team was in a tailspin when Flacco was injured, and it appeared that Coach John Harbaugh’s job was in jeopardy.After Jackson stepped in, the offense was reborn as a run-first attack unlike anything the league had seen in decades. Jackson went 6-1 as a starter, and while his passing clearly needed work, he ran for 695 yards, or 4.7 yards a carry.Despite a devastating wild-card round loss to the Los Angeles Chargers, the Ravens were presumably already committed to Jackson as their starter. The Broncos are expected to send the Ravens a fourth-round draft pick, giving Baltimore a decent return on a player who had gone just 24-27 over the last four seasons.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongPORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Ed Hobson stood up in the bleachers along the first-base line at Field 7 in the Mets’ spring training facility Saturday morning, having driven 300 miles to monitor one man.“Hoping to meet St. Timothy,” said Hobson, an assistant chief at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers. “We even have a four-foot alligator in front of our house. We named him Tebow because he’s the greatest Gator of all time.”He was referring, of course, to Tim Tebow, the former football player and current Mets farmhand. Hobson, a University of Florida alumnus like Tebow, had never seen him in the flesh, but he wore a T-shirt emblazoned “Team Tebow.” Hobson’s 6-year-old son, Liam, wore a replica of Tebow’s old No. 15 Florida football jersey.They were on a family pilgrimage. The night before, they hopped in a Honda Odyssey at their home near the Georgia coast to observe the latest stop on Tebow’s baseball journey. Father and son moved closer to the chain-link fence as Tebow made the first steps in his transition from a Class AA All-Star to training for the Syracuse Mets in Class AAA.Tebow, 31, strode into this third spring training with a confident gait, intent on not repeating past missteps. Last February, Tebow failed to make it past a sprinkler head during drill work and sprained his ankle. The injury worsened as a result of Tebow’s refusal to rest, and he collected just one hit in 18 at-bats, all as a designated hitter, in seven spring games.“I didn’t play one snap of outfield,” he said Saturday before catching his slip into football vernacular.Forgive Tebow. In the gig economy, he has remained on the go. During the fall and winter, he returned to work as a college football analyst for ESPN. Still, he swung in batting cages on college campuses between on-camera appearances. On the day of the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, he performed his television duties in the morning, went to Tulane University for batting practice and then returned to the stadium for the game. In a suite, he discussed his swing with his hitting coach, Jay Gibbons, the former Dodger and Oriole who travels with Tebow.“When you give me enough time, I’m going to just make up that ground, those tiny inches every day,” Tebow said. “That’s my mind-set: Just keep working; get a little bit better.”Though Tebow has been out of the N.F.L. since 2015 — and had not appeared in a regular-season game since 2012 — football still calls. In recent weeks, Tebow turned down an offer to play for Coach Steve Spurrier’s Orlando Apollos in the Alliance of American Football, a nascent league populated with former N.F.L. players like Tebow, who played three seasons. Before reporting to Mets camp, Tebow also walked down the red carpet at the premiere of “Run the Race,” a faith-based movie he co-produced with his brother, Robby.He maintained, though, that neither film nor football could lure him away from the diamond now.“No way could I stop and not give this the chance after everything I’ve worked for,” he said. “This is what I’m in now, and I’m all in.”Tebow commenced his latest campaign in the batting cage. He then ran down fly balls in the outfield, backpedaling and making over-the-shoulder catches. When he walked to home plate with his bat, he received hugs from Omar Minaya, the special assistant to the general manager; Brodie Van Wagenen, the general manager; and Fred Wilpon, the team owner. On pitch after pitch, Tebow, who batted .273 with the Class AA Binghamton Rumble Ponies last summer, turned his hips and connected with the ball. Seven of his hits cleared the right-field fence.“It’s raw power,” Manager Mickey Callaway said. “It’s real. The bat moves through the zone pretty swiftly. He’s got to continue to work on handling certain zones, but he puts the barrel on the ball, and it goes a long way.”Tebow also could not help but weigh in on the recent story that transcended both of his sports. While on assignment for ESPN, he met Kyler Murray, the Oklahoma quarterback who won the Heisman Trophy last season after being picked by Oakland in the first round of the Major League Baseball draft. Murray recently announced his decision to play football professionally, instead of baseball. Tebow, who won the Heisman Trophy in 2007, understood his position better than most.“I think this was a really tough decision for him,” Tebow said. “He loves two sports, and I can really relate to that. And he went with something that he’s been really good at lately and dominating in. When we talked about it, and we did talk about that, I just gave him the advice to follow your heart. Whatever you’re passionate about.”He recalled telling Murray: “You know what? Don’t do it for your agents, or your friends and sometimes necessarily even your family. Do it for what’s on your heart, and don’t let other people define you. You’re going to have all these coaches that you look up to and everybody else that’s going to tell you what they think, but what’s most important is following your heart and your passion.”Reminders of Tebow’s past life greeted him on the other side of the fence after his first workout. One spectator held up a photo of him celebrating with football teammates at Florida. Another held out a Jets jersey with his No. 15 stitched into it. Tebow scrawled his signature for children as he tucked his yellow birch bat with “John 16:33” — a Scripture passage about taking heart and finding peace — marked on the barrel beneath his arm.Anticipation grew for Donna Taaffee, a fan, as she watched him approach.“He’s getting closer!” she said. “Oh my goodness, he’s getting closer!”Tebow smiled as he passed. He then shook the hand of Hobson, whose son held out a baseball and pen for Tebow to sign. Tebow obliged.Hobson joked about catching up later on with Tebow, who recently got engaged to Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, the 2017 Miss Universe pageant winner.“My co-worker and I are going to crash his wedding,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byImpeachment is tempting. But there’s a stronger case for waiting for the 2020 election.By Michael TomaskyContributing Opinion WriterLast weekend, a smart friend of mine raised an interesting question: Would political opponents of Donald Trump rather see him removed from office via impeachment and conviction, or would we rather see him voted out of office in 2020?The question has the makings of a parlor game that could occupy the passions of anti-Trump Americans for months. Strong cases can be made for both sides of the argument. I come down on the side of the ballot box, and firmly so, because it has more historical authority and legitimacy — and for one other reason that I’ll reveal in a bit.The impeachment side of the argument, though, isn’t to be dismissed out of hand. It’s true that impeachment is a political process, and getting enough Republicans to support removing a president from their party would take a formidable list of offenses. But to a lot of us, the list is already quite formidable — Mr. Trump has, by any common-sense definition, obstructed justice repeatedly in public. Many House Democrats are raring to go with what they have; Representative Brad Sherman of California has already introduced his own articles of impeachment against Mr. Trump.And there is likely to be much more. For the moment, let’s presume that several months from now, Robert Mueller has given us evidence of obstruction, cooperation with Russians during the 2016 campaign and compelling evidence that Russian banks on some level “own” Mr. Trump. And that’s leaving aside everything investigators may be learning about the Trump Organization from Michael Cohen and Allen Weisselberg.Let’s also assume that House Democrats will have done their work and, at a minimum, documented numerous and ghastly Trump family violations of the emoluments clause. Remember also on that front that two lawsuits are working their way through the federal courts, so let’s imagine that they are allowed to proceed as well. This is to say nothing of the instances of more banal forms of corruption Democrats may have unearthed through their own investigations this year that could rightly be called high crimes and misdemeanors. In sum, let us say that by next football season, the president’s goose will be well and truly cooked, and House impeachment proceedings seem amply justified.There will then hang the question of whether 20 Senate Republicans — at least, assuming that all 47 Democrats would vote to convict — would actually agree to remove Mr. Trump from office. That seems exceedingly unlikely.But whether they would or would not, many would argue that Democrats would still have a constitutional responsibility to exercise. Impeachment is the only remedy the founders provided for removing from office someone who is clearly unfit to hold it. If all of what I stipulated above happens and the Democrats don’t act, aren’t they saying the Constitution is meaningless? If you can’t impeach a president whose very election is found to have been illegitimate, then whom can you impeach? And how do you recover, as a country, from such a bitterly partisan episode? Those are good questions. But they have an obvious answer. While impeachment is clearly a valid exercise of power, so is another method of removal, also prescribed by the Constitution: an election. This is how Americans like to ditch presidents and parties they don’t like — presidential power has changed hands 44 times in this country’s history.In addition, nine incumbent presidents have lost re-election, including three in the last half-century, and all have peacefully (if not always gracefully) yielded power. In contrast, only two presidents, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, have been impeached by the House, though both were acquitted in the Senate. Richard Nixon, facing certain and imminent impeachment, resigned.That’s a historical record that suggests that an electoral outcome will be much more widely accepted. Mr. Trump’s partisans will whine about the unfairness of it all in either case — they’ll blame “voter fraud,” or George Soros, or the “fake news media.” But if the voters have rebuffed the president, the whining will sound to most Americans like just that.There’s one more reason I’d prefer to see Mr. Trump laid low via the ballot. It will do more long-term damage to the Republican Party.If Mr. Trump is removed via impeachment and conviction — that is, with those 20 Republican votes — Republicans can say, “See, we’ve come to our senses; got that out of our system.” But if they renominate Mr. Trump and stick with him through November 2020 and the voters clearly say no, not again, Republicans are left sitting in the wreckage. They will be trying to air out the Trump stench for a generation, maybe two, which is precisely the fate they deserve.True, this carries the risk that Mr. Trump might win in 2020. But the impeachment process carries the (considerable) risk that a Senate conviction will fall short, which would enable Mr. Trump to seek re-election as the victim of those vicious Democrats and of the enemy of the people, the press. Nothing in life is risk free.But risk’s opposite is reward, and in this case the far greater reward — for liberals and Democrats, yes, but also for our democracy itself — is the one that would come on the night of Nov. 3, 2020, when perhaps a record number of voters will cast their ballots and a decisive majority will say to Mr. Trump: Go home.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast, editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas and a contributing opinion writer.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. I was out in Portland, Ore., a while back for work, but I got nights off to see family and we used one of them to go to Han Oak, a casual-fantastic Korean restaurant owned and operated by the chef Peter Cho and his wife, Sun Young Park. A meal at Han Oak is essentially a meal in the couple’s home, the dining room crowded with new friends and everywhere the smell of wood smoke and crisping beef. We ordered the whole menu, and it was a revelation. But one dish in particular stuck out so much that I interrogated Cho about it that night in the restaurant, and later over the phone.Those conversations became the heart of my “Eat” column for The Times this week, and they led to this incredible recipe for Cho’s galbijjim (above), the classic Korean short-rib stew. I hope you will make galbijjim this weekend, to serve as many people as you can manage. The recipe calls for the addition of rice cakes at the end, but if you can’t find any at the market, don’t worry. Just serve the stew with rice. It’s so great.Make some stew this weekend, anyway, even if you don’t thrill to the flavors of Korea. For myself, I like this Doc Willoughby recipe for a cold-start tagine-style lamb stew. I like David Tanis’s recipe for mushroom stew as well. (As I do, come to think of it, his recipe for lobster stew with a pastry lid.) Julia Moskin’s spicy peanut stew with ginger and tomato is terrific vegan fare. My recipe for Jamaican oxtail stew is plain terrific. All the stews!Of course, stew’s not for everyone. So you might make pan pizza this weekend. (Recently, in Step 3 of that recipe, I’ve been using my stand mixer to really zip the dough around on high, which has worked wonders down the line, during the proofing.) You could make eggs Benedict. There are two big football games on Sunday. You should make game-day nachos. Chicken wings. Stuffed jalapeños. A fried eggplant hero.Rich fare, I know! For those who don’t want to play, try out some sweet and spicy tofu with soba noodles instead. A winter vegetable curry. Anna Jones’s amazing warm kale salad with coconut and tomato, so great.There are thousands and thousands of recipes awaiting your attentions on NYT Cooking. Go take a look, see what intrigues. (Yes, you need to be a subscriber to do that. Here is how to become one.) Come visit us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter as well, or find me personally: @samsifton. Run into trouble along the way, with your cooking, with our technology? Write for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get back to you.Now, please read this beautiful, haunting excerpt from a new memoir by Tommy Tomlinson that ran in The Atlantic recently, “The Weight I Carry.”Also this beautiful, haunting essay by Russell Worth Parker in Lauren Katzenberg’s essential At War section of The Times, “I’m Prepared to Talk About the Things I Did in Iraq. Are People Ready to Listen?”You should check out, as well, this Dwight Garner review in The Times of Doug Bock Clark’s new book, “The Last Whalers: Three Years in the Far Pacific With a Courageous Tribe and a Vanishing Way of Life.”(On a similar subject, and in case you missed me writing about it before: Robert Sullivan’s fantastic “A Whale Hunt: How a Native-American Village Did What No One Thought It Could.” Also, likewise, Julia O’Malley’s article for High Country News, “The Teenage Whaler’s Tale,” which has one of the best opening sentences in the history of whaling literature.)Finally, and nothing to do with cakes or ale: This is Jah Division, “Dub Will Tear Us Apart.” Have a great weekend. I’ll be back on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Trip GabrielThomas K. Norment Jr., the powerful Republican majority leader in the Virginia Senate, was a top editor of a 1968 college yearbook that included several photographs of students in blackface as well as racist slurs.Mr. Norment, 72, a longtime fixture and political broker in the State Legislature, is the first Republican to be swept up in Virginia’s ongoing political crisis over racist behavior in the past. The Virginian-Pilot newspaper first reported on the photos and material on Thursday.As a senior at Virginia Military Institute, then an all-male college that was sometimes called “the West Point of the South,’’ Mr. Norment was managing editor of the 1968 edition of the Bomb yearbook. That edition included students in blackface and slurs aimed at African-Americans, Asians and Jews, according to a copy viewed by The New York Times.Mr. Norment, in a statement released by his office Thursday, said, “The use of blackface is abhorrent in our society and I emphatically condemn it.” He said he was part of a seven-member team at the Bomb, “a 359-page yearbook,” and added, “I cannot endorse or associate myself with every photo, entry, or word on each page.” He noted that he did not appear in the offensive pictures and said he did not take those photos.The images surfaced in the wake of acknowledgments by two Virginia leaders, Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, that they had each worn blackface as young men. The admissions by those two Democrats have plunged Virginia into turmoil and led to calls for both men’s resignations. A third Democratic leader, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, is facing an allegation of sexual assault.The Bomb yearbook includes a photograph of two smiling people in blackface holding a football, one with a cigarette and white military hat. In another photo, a young man is in blackface posing with others apparently at a party.The yearbook includes page after page of seniors posed in starched white military shirts, or sometimes informally, accompanied by breezy descriptions of their sports and social activities. Some of these descriptions refer to students with slurs and obscenities.Virginia Military Institute, founded two decades before the Civil War, is a state-supported academy that has long been favored by prominent Virginia families. It only admitted African-Americans in 1968, the year that Mr. Norment graduated. Women were first admitted about three decades later.Mr. Northam, the governor, graduated from the institute in 1981, where his yearbook entry included the nickname “Coonman.’’ He went on to Eastern Virginia Medical School, where a photograph from his 1984 yearbook page surfaced last week showing a figure in blackface and another in K.K.K. robes.A statement by Mr. Norment on the yearbook’s page dedicated to its editors, reads, “It has been the objective of this year’s Bomb staff to concentrate on the VMI as it exists in actuality, not in theory.”Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongPORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Pete Alonso, the most intriguing prospect in Mets camp, spent last year putting together one of the most productive minor-league seasons in Mets history. He started his off-season by getting engaged to be married. His next task: winning the four-man competition to start at first base on Opening Day.“I want to force someone’s hand,” he said. “I want to come in here and be the best option.”Alonso, 24, has a history of making a strong early impression. His first word as a baby, he said, was “ball.” At the Futures Game during All-Star weekend last summer, he rerouted a 95 miles-per-hour pitch from the Phillies prospect Adonis Medina 415 feet for a home run to left. At the Fall Stars game in Arizona in November, he sent a 103 m.p.h. fastball from the Blue Jays prospect Nate Pearson over the fence in straightaway center.“I didn’t even know how I hit it,” Alonso said. “I just closed my eyes and touched it.”And in the Mets’ spring opener on Saturday, he did it again: hitting a home run on the first pitch he saw.Alonso, a 6-foot-3, 240-pound infielder who was drafted in the second round in 2016, opened eyes all last year, proving he had rare power. But he still has questions to answer: Is his defense strong enough to start him at first base, and, beyond this spring, can he become a right-handed anchor in the heart of the Mets’ lineup for years to come?“The only thing I can control is with my own two hands: hit the ball, playing good defense,” Alonso said. “That’s all I can do. Whatever happens, happens.”He’s done the first part supremely well. Between Class AA Binghamton and Class AAA Las Vegas last year, he hit 36 home runs with 119 R.B.I. and a .975 O.P.S., pushing him past his fellow farmhand Dominic Smith on the organizational depth chart.Still, the Mets, who were out of contention, declined to promote Alonso to the majors during September call-ups, citing his defense as one area that needed improvement. Alonso’s agents, Adam Karon and Tripper Johnson, publicly questioned the decision, calling it “disheartening for Peter after producing an historically great season.”He stayed busy in the off-season. After proposing to his girlfriend, Haley Walsh, in November with a ring he bought in Vegas, he went back to work on his fielding. He dropped 12 pounds during winter workouts with Steven Negron, a former minor league infielder. Before showing up early for spring training, Alonso sent videos of his defensive workouts to General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen, hoping to beat out Smith, Todd Frazier and J.D. Davis for the first-baseman position.“As much as the hitting is fun to watch, we had a pretty good idea what he could do offensively,” said Van Wagenen. “His defensive strides have been pretty remarkable.”Manager Mickey Callaway called Alonso “probably the most improved defensive guy” that the Mets have seen in some time. Callaway recalled being chided by a member of the grounds crew last spring when parts of the infield were chewed up early one morning. Callaway knew Alonso had been taking extra ground balls.“He actually ruined the field,” Callaway said. “The groundskeeper comes in and goes, ‘Hey man, what are you doing to the field?’ I’m like, ‘That’s Pete Alonso.’ He’s just out there working. That’s who he is. He’s going to continue to improve no matter where you put him.”Growing up in Florida, Alonso played football and lacrosse until after his freshman year in high school, when he focused on baseball. At the University of Florida, where he played three collegiate seasons, his big bat and uncommon toughness caught the eye of Brad Weitzel, a former scout for the Minnesota Twins who was a coach on the Gators’ staff. Alonso sustained a broken nose after a ball he hit in the batting cage ricocheted off a pole and struck him in the face. But he refused to sit on the bench long, returning to the diamond with a protective mask over his batting helmet.“It was frightening for me,” his mother, Michelle Alonso, said. “Crazy Peter wanted to play. It was still technically broken. He likes to keep me on my toes.”Weitzel said he watched Alonso “take over the program as a leader.” One day during the first spring after Alonso had played professionally, Weitzel noticed Alonso did not pick up a bat during a workout with younger Gators — a departure from the days when he would shrug off defensive work in favor of working on hitting.“I told him there were days when he was at Florida that he didn’t know where his glove was,” Weitzel said. “He knew that professionals are paid to win. He was growing up.”Alonso and Weitzel continue to check in on each other. Weitzel counseled Alonso through his frustrations last fall, and explained that it was a business move for the Mets. When the Gators lost back-to-back games last week, Alonso called his old coach.For all the focus on his defense, however, Alonso has continued working on his hitting. Whether he can turn into a towering, Aaron Judge-like presence in the Mets’ order will only become clear with time, but Alonso was still embracing new challenges last week. First, he faced Jacob deGrom, the Cy Young Award winner, in batting practice. Then, he squared off against the hard-throwing Noah Syndergaard.“It’s good to see the best,” Alonso said of trying to adjust to the majors. “It’s just all about staying disciplined, being able to capitalize. I’ve got to be ready for everything.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLife as a Runway“You do not want to have something penetrate the bottom of your foot.” By John OrtvedOne Wall Street, a 50-story Art Deco skyscraper completed in 1931, is being carved into 566 condos and retail space. With prices averaging $3 million, it will likely draw bankers, tech executives and members of the New York’s swelling plutocracy. But until its doors open in 2020, it is the temporary home for some 400 workers, most of them in construction, who spend their days feeding the city’s building boom. Here’s what eight of them wore under their hard hats. Age: 42Occupation: shop stewardWhy is there a “no rat” sticker on your hat? In the basements of the buildings and stuff. I’m not a big fan of them.It has nothing to do with rats, like non-union labor?You could take it both ways, but it’s not really for that purpose.Tell me how you suit up for work.You always dress warm in renovation projects because the of the open areas. I wear Timberlands, which is standard.Jeans?Typical work jeans. Gap or Levi’s. These are insulated so you don’t have to wear long johns underneath. And then a vest and a sweatshirt, from Carhartt. T-shirt and long-sleeve shirt.That’s a lot of laundry.It’s a lot of laundry for the wife, not for me.Age: 19Occupation: apprentice carpenterWhat have you built?Different stuff. I built a table, doors. I’ve protected windows.Are you wearing two sweatshirts?Yeah. The outer one is high-vis clothing, so anyone can see me coming.Your T-shirt underneath is orange too. Did you do that on purpose?Yeah, so if it gets hot I can take my sweatshirt off and still have high-vis underneath.What’s under your hood?It’s a do-rag, to keep my head warm. You can get them at any pharmacy where I live in the Bronx.Are your Carhartt pants for warmth, too?And they have a lot of pockets that I can put my tools in. My knife, pencils, snips.Age: 36Occupation: laborer, Local 79What’s your job?As a laborer, you got to make sure that everything is tight, clean. See there’s nothing in your way that you could fall and crack your head open, nothing like that.What do you wear on your feet?These are Wolverines. Steel toe. You want to step on them? Go ahead. Jump on ’em.How do you dress for work in the winter?Layers, layers, layers. You can’t put on a big bubble coat and come to work.What are your shirt layers?I got an Under Armour shirt, I got a long john, I got a flannel with the wool inside, and I got a hoodie. I got them from Amazon. It’s the easiest.Do you prefer to work in the winter or summer?Doesn’t matter.Why not?You’ve got to get paid.Age: 36Occupation: laborerDoes your jacket keep you warm?Sí.And where do you get it?Macy’s.How many layers total?Three. And a hat.And are you gloves for warmth, too, or protection?For work.Age: 47Occupation: construction logistics manager, J.T. Magen & CompanyHow do you dress for work?I think about comfort, warmth, somewhat professional looking.Where do you get your nice gingham shirt?I have to say, my wife got it for me.Do you know where she gets them?I’m not sure. Maybe J. Crew or Banana Republic.Where did you get your shoes?I don’t know.Your watch is not subtle.It’s a G-Shock. It can take the punches on a construction site. I can smash it into the brick. I might injure myself, but the watch will be fine.What do you put in your little notebook?It’s a large construction site. There’s a lot going on, a lot to remember.Age: 51Occupation: construction superintendentWhat does a super do?We direct the trades and bring the job in at a particular time, and really manage the job from start to finish. Before this, I was in the computer field for 15 years.How do you get dressed for work?You have to have proper shoes, pants, warm jacket. Our company gave us these Helly Hansen ones. Under that I wear a hoodie and two or three layers. Today it’s 50 degrees so I leave the hoodie hanging up in my locker.Where do you pick up your cargo pants?Modell’s. They’re cheap, they’re lined, 20 bucks. When you’re finished with them, just throw them out.Age: “Over 50”Occupation: architect, properties director, Macklowe PropertiesHow’s everything going?I’m glad to say we’re making some forward progress.What do you wear on site visits?The most important thing on a construction site is what you wear on your feet. Today I went with Italian boots. They’re Gravati. You do not want to have something penetrate the bottom of your foot.Where did you get your jacket from?The one underneath is Akris. It’s like a biker jacket.What about your scarf?It’s Paul Stuart. The jacket too. It’s old, like 25 years old. My whole paycheck back then. And then some.What’s your watch?It’s a Rolex. Simple. Very architectural.Was that your second paycheck?Yes.Age: 52Occupation: head of securityYour look is almost paramilitary.Actually it is paramilitary. This is a protective vest. Level 3 Kevlar.Who’s going to shoot at you down here?You never know. We’re posted out front. These guys outside the stock exchange, they’re dressed the same way.Where do you get your boots?Tactical boots, ordered from paramilitary sites. I don’t want to promote anybody, but I do use Condor.And a thermal under your vest?This is dry wear, pulls sweat off, retains body heat. On top is a shirt that salutes my favorite football team, the Patriots.Is it tough being a Pats fan on a New York City construction site?Absolutely. All day I get nothing but Jets and Giants fans coming at me.The interviews have been edited and condensed.An earlier version of this article misstated Cary Levy's title at J.T. Magen & Company. He is the construction logistics manager, not the assistant superintendent.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byReader IdeaBy Emma TsaiEnglish teachers have long employed mentor texts — pieces that can be studied and imitated as examples of great writing — in their writing lessons. In this Reader Idea, Emma Tsai, an English teacher at Episcopal High School in Houston, and a writer herself, tells us how she teaches with mentor sentences from The New York Times — bite-sized nuggets of excellent writing that her students learn to identify in real-world writing and then use in their own creative pieces. We love the way she breaks down the sometimes overwhelming task of teaching writing into digestible bites. Students read an article of their choice, identify well-written sentences, and then imitate them in their own piece of writing. She says the results have been astonishing — especially for struggling writers. What makes this lesson work so well? It’s “the combination of seeing writing done well out there in the world, plus their writing and reading about something they already find interesting,” she says.Best of all, these activities can be used by any teacher with any day’s Times.Do you teach with The Times? Tell us about it here, or browse our full collection of Reader Ideas._________As an English teacher who is also a writer, I never stop looking for ways for my students to learn writing in an authentic way. I believe writing can be taught and learned, through not only practice but really approaching the craft formulaically until it becomes more natural. Learning to write well means reading strong writing, studying its structure and form, and copying it stylistically until a writer finds his or her own voice.In my writing classes, I teach grammar principles over the course of a few weeks, which I teach through a PowerPoint presentation with examples of the principles in a few sentences. Then, I have my students use them immediately in a creative writing assignment. After a month or so of such lessons, I’ll focus on grammar in application by sending them to The New York Times website.The Times is a great source of interesting content and well-written prose. As a publication that features many human interest stories, the newspaper also offers a wide array of topics that can intrigue students of multiple backgrounds and interests.As a one-to-one laptop school, my students benefit from being able to use the web independently in class. I ask them to access The Times website and I direct them toward a particular article of interest to me, like “In Life’s Last Moments, Open a Window,” an Opinion piece written by a doctor about her hospice patients.The first thing I do is offer a model of what they’ll do independently in the next few minutes. I identify three sentences that do something well.For instance, a sentence with an interruption separated by em dashes:When I re-entered the room, the reclining chair that the patient — a tall, angular man in his 80s — had been thrashing around in had been turned to face out onto the garden and the double doors were open wide.A short punchy sentence:All he had wanted was that view.And a sentence with a strong verb:All cancers have the power to ravage a body, but each assails in distinctive ways.Other examples might include the use of independent and dependent clauses, gerunds, absolute phrases and participial phrases.I then write my own sentences demonstrating each of those strong writing tactics on a completely separate topic._________The students’ task: From the Times website, I ask my students to pick an article of interest to them — either from the home page or by using the search feature to find an article on a particular topic they want to read about, like sports or animals. They then read the article with a highlighter and highlight sentences they feel are particularly well written.Once they’ve done that, they have to repeat what they see — in at least three sentences — in a piece of creative writing of their own. This might mean adding an impactful introductory sentence, incorporating introductory clauses, varying sentence length, diversifying verb choice or anything else.This activity teaches my students a number of lessons, whether they are conscious of it or not: that the news can interest them; that good writing can be found everywhere about nearly every kind of topic; that writing isn’t a mysterious, magical talent but can be learned and imitated; and that there are many different types of ways a writer can write well.Here are a few examples of student-chosen mentor sentences followed by their own writing:Example 1:Model: But while his family has welcomed them back, hers is another matter.Student sentence: But while I have finished packing for the trip, my sister is another matter.Example 2:History and philosophy alike counsel that the most practical course is to moderate class conflict, not by pretending it away, but through the self-assertion of the weaker classes and institutionalized recognition of their interests.Not after long the football team continued to win, not through luck but through strength and togetherness shown by all the players on the team.Example 3:Then, below the chimneys, a pigeon cartwheels like a thrown firework through a broken window into the darkness beyond.Last night it was super cold, like the climate on a high mountain in the winter.Example 4:After nearly a year on the run, a pair of star-crossed young lovers are back in the Afghan village where both their love affair and their problems began.After eight hours of school work, I can finally go back to the comfort and safety of my home.Example 5:If I desired it, it was mine as if by birthright, for the simple reason that English was my native tongue.If I so desire to play sports in college, it is mine for the taking, but that does not mean I do not have to work for it.Example 6:But not long afterward, I fell in love with him, not through the charm of performance but through the hallucinatory power of his language.But not long afterward, I was filled with resentment, not necessarily because I had done something wrong but because I knew how angry it would make my friend._________I’ve also extended this lesson with vocabulary. For this activity, I pulled words from an SAT book, then had students read the Modern Love essay “Need to Find Me? As My Ham Man.” The piece begins:The man who sells me ham is the first person who would notice if I were dead. Experience supports this claim.When my grandmother died unexpectedly three years ago, I left Paris for the funeral without warning any of my local shopkeepers. This led my charcuterie salesman to believe that I myself was dead.Alarmed by my continued absence, and aware of my daily dining route, he hurried across the street to my wine guy to see if he had any news of me. I’m the human equivalent of a stray dog who wanders from shop to shop in search of whoever will give me a snack.My wine guy hadn’t seen me in days either, so he called my friend, who explained about the family emergency. When I finally returned from Boston, there was no need to explain where I had been; the whole neighborhood had been alerted. And they turned out with hugs, condolences, even chocolates.Students then emulated — sentence by sentence — the sentence structure of the piece, and incorporated five SAT words of their choice.This activity shows students the importance of a punchy sentence, the flexibility of phrases and clauses, and how different sentence beginnings can add energy to prose. Their end result had to flow as a story and make sense, which also taught them cohesiveness and creativity.Here’s what they came up with:Example 1:The man who sells eloquent glassware is the first person who would notice my inevitable death. Experience supports this claim.When my exorbitant brother died unexpectedly three years ago, I left Paris in a panic not realizing how much damage this inevitable death would deal to the family. This led to a sentimental service.Alarmed by my continued absence, and assiduous about my dead brother the salesman went on making the small glass hummingbirds with great care. As I learned more and more about my brother and his pricey habits I realized just how inevitable his death was.My family hadn’t seen my brother in days and missed him so much, so I called a friend to compensate my feelings. When I finally returned home there was nothing to help me grieve.Example 2:The man who sells me pencils is very assiduous and not sentimental. He is always working to help me and is happy while doing it. He is aptly about the work when I am having a bad day.When my dogs left me out of the blue three weeks ago, I left stoically without the pencil man knowing. This made him think that I did not want pencils from him anymore, but truly I still did: I was just upset about the current circumstances.Scared about my secret disappearance, my pencil man wreaked havoc attempting to find me by asking around and screaming at other vendors. I am the perfect representation of an undercover drama queen: wanting attention, but also by doing it without anyone knowing.Example 3:The barista who makes my coffee is the only person who knows my order. She tries to compensate her time by making mine beforehand when there is a long line.When my boss tells me to get his coffee, I have to leave my house early without letting my dog know. His barks are verbose and unneeded when I wake him up early.Alarmed by me not being there when he woke up, he very aptly and appropriately, went crazy trying to find me. He is the dog equivalent of a worried and sentimental mother who can’t find her child.It was inevitable and bound to happen that I would get his order wrong, so he made me go back to Starbucks, which was not a surprise. When I walked in the door, the barista saw me; and immediately started making my usual order. An iced chai latte, with almond milk, and 3 cubes of ice.The results of these lessons have been astonishing. Students who struggle with papers have turned in amazingly written pieces about playing on the football team, using a 3-D printer and exploring their identity. The combination of seeing writing done well out there in the world, plus their writing and reading about something they already find interesting, makes this lesson work.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe city’s restaurant scene has evolved since the last Super Bowl here. So look beyond downtown, enjoy the diversity and don’t forget breakfast.By Kim SeversonATLANTA — In 2000, the last time this city hosted the Super Bowl, the St. Louis Rams beat the Tennessee Titans, and Watershed had been frying its famous fried chicken in lard and sweet butter flavored with country ham for only a year.The new Southern food movement that the restaurant in nearby Decatur helped define had not yet moved North. Brooklynites weren’t worshiping biscuits, and American barbecue had not met kimchi. Only a few cooks or writers outside the South were giving serious thought to the connection between Southern food and that of West Africa.Even here, in the booming cultural and commercial center of the American South, diners had only begun to embrace a style of cooking that emphasized seasonality and history over carbohydrates and caricature. Atlanta’s most popular restaurants were local chains dipped in the glitzy, corporate sheen of the Buckhead neighborhood, and high-end steakhouses like Ruth’s Chris and Morton’s were abundant.Now, as the city prepares to show off its new $1.5 billion Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday, when the New England Patriots meet the Los Angeles Rams, Atlanta is a more evolved food town than it was then.Neighborhood beer bars and slick suburban dining rooms alike serve food that shows off Southern agriculture. Food from the region’s vast immigrant population is as celebrated as its local classics.Although diners remain loyal to local entrepreneurs like Fifth Group Restaurants, which started opening reliable spots like South City Kitchen in the 1990s, the city is less impressed by carpetbagging chains. And the ranks of talented young cooks tired of trying to compete in bigger cities continue to grow.Still, Atlanta has yet to find its footing among the nation’s great restaurant cities. Wyatt Williams, who recently quit reviewing restaurants for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, wrote in a parting column this month in Atlanta magazine that the dining scene was in a rut, riding an economic boom that has spawned cynical, money-grabbing restaurants “where the rooms are finely appointed, the menus are deeply predictable, and the cooking is barely passable.”Stephen Satterfield, a former sommelier in San Francisco who founded the food magazine Whetstone, grew up in Atlanta. During a recent trip home, he described Atlanta as an insecure food town, obsessed with how it measures up against cities with outsize culinary reputations.“It pains me to say it, but here everyone is well-intentioned and there is plenty of capital and resources, so I don’t understand why there aren’t more places that feel of the moment,” he said.Plenty of Atlanta chefs and diners would disagree, albeit politely. The trick, they advise visitors, is drilling down into the right parts of town.“You’ve got to get out of downtown,” said the chef Kevin Gillespie, a former Top Chef contestant who has three restaurants here. “Get in your Uber and go to a neighborhood. That’s where you’ll find the great stuff. You’re going to leave the city with a completely different idea of what Atlanta really is.”Of all the local chefs scrambling to be part of the Super Bowl, Mr. Gillespie is the M.V.P. He runs Gamechanger, a concession inside the Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where his “closed on Sunday” chicken sandwich — a homage to the faith-based policy that keeps Chick-fil-A restaurants shuttered on Sundays, even Super Bowl Sundays — has helped make it the highest-grossing food vendor in the arena.He is also one of three chefs whom Arthur Blank, a founder of Home Depot who bought the Atlanta Falcons in 2002, approved to cook on Thursday for the N.F.L. owners’ dinner, a traditional meal usually held at a fancy restaurant or a well-appointed home. Mr. Blank is staging the dinner at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, not far from the stadium.“It talks to the history of the city and the great connection the N.F.L. has made with the players around issues surrounding social justice,” Mr. Blank said. “We’ve moved from protest to progress.”(Some critics have complained that all three chefs are white men, though Aaron Jefferson, a general manager from the restaurant Iberian Pig who is African-American, was later added to oversee cocktails and wine.)Mr. Gillespie cautions visitors to not expect a city as explicitly Southern as, say, Charleston, S.C. “It’s not ‘Gone With the Wind’ down here,” he said. “Atlanta is a city that has always been about business. It’s not as ‘Hee Haw’-y as people think it might be.”Rather, Atlanta is a metropolis filled with a lot of people from other places. The city’s population is less than 500,000, but the region, which includes the sprawling suburbs, is home to about 5.9 million. People from small Southern towns have moved here for better jobs, and others from big American cities have come seeking less stress and a lower cost of living. The region’s mix includes immigrants from Mexico, India, South Korea and Vietnam.That influx feeds a mix of cuisines, many of them represented in hundreds of restaurants and markets on Buford Highway, the biggest concentration of which starts at the city’s northeastern edge and continues for about 10 miles. Taking measure of the highway’s offerings is a heroic task, but good resources to consult are We Love BuHi, a website and Instagram feed dedicated to the strip, and the local food writer Christiane Lauterbach’s dispatches on Twitter and in Atlanta magazine. Two favorites are the homey Korean grandma food at Yet Tuh and the terrific sambal-sauced okra and noodle and rice dishes at Food Terminal, a modern Malaysian restaurant that shares a parking lot with an expansive multicultural supermarket, a Chinese barbecue spot, a Viet-Cajun seafood restaurant and a tofu house.Atlanta has rarely met a restaurant trend it didn’t like, and right now that translates to food halls. Some of the best restaurants in town have been carved out of restored industrial spaces. Among them is Watchman’s, in the Krog Street Market, a cheery, Cuban-influenced restaurant that turns sustainably harvested Southern seafood into dishes like grilled fish collars bathed in Alabama white barbecue sauce and dappled with salsa verde. Its perfect daiquiris have developed a loyal following.Next door is the Ticonderoga Club, a cozy restaurant whose menu ranges from 48 ounces of grilled, sous-vide chuck roast to a coconut-braised eggplant dish that the chef David Bies picked up in Bali. Students of the Southern cocktail scene make regular pilgrimages to its tiny bar.The grandest food hall of them all is inside the sprawling brick Ponce City Market, a former Sears distribution center developed into a mixed-use complex by the team that created Chelsea Market in New York.Many of Atlanta’s biggest names in food have a presence here. Hugh Acheson pumps out coffee and fat squares of toast slathered with fresh local cow’s milk cheese and jam at Spiller Park, and Hector Santiago sells a fine medianoche sandwich at El Super Pan. Linton Hopkins (one in the trio of chefs cooking for the N.F.L. owners) offers a stacked cheeseburger at H&F Burger, and fried chicken and biscuits next door at a little stand called Hop’s Chicken.Anne Quatrano, the chef who began Atlanta’s farm-to-table era at her flagship restaurant Bacchanalia 25 years ago, sells fresh Gulf shrimp and oysters at W.H. Stiles Fish Camp.Ms. Quatrano, chairwoman of the James Beard Foundation’s awards committee, remains a levelheaded fan of the city’s food. Like Mr. Gillespie, she says some of the best food is found in modest, neighborhood restaurants.“There’s a lot of young talent here,” she said. “Some of it’s raw, but it’s still good. That makes for really good dining at lot of the smaller places.”One is Banshee, a boisterous restaurant inside a former lesbian bar in the charmingly scruffy East Atlanta neighborhood. Tables are packed with diners who swipe fry bread through smears of pepperoni butter, and debate whether the Sichuan-spiced pork osso buco is better than the braised onion caramelle with braised beef cheeks.At Tiny Lou’s, inside the newly refurbished Hotel Clermont, not far from Ponce City Market, Jeb Aldrich delivers a smart take on French classics, and the pastry chef Claudia Martinez makes a crêpes suzette cake that customers can’t seem to stop talking about.Atlanta also is a big breakfast town, which is why in a few weeks Ms. Quatrano will open Pancake Social, a 120-seat, all-day breakfast place in Ponce City Market. Until then, Java Jive, Highland Bakery and Home Grown, whose pancakes and chili cheese grits are worth enduring the inevitable line, all make for a fine breakfast field trip.And don’t forget Waffle House. The original restaurant in nearby Avondale Estates has been turned into the company’s museum, but there are plenty of others in full operation. (Pro tip: Order your hash browns scattered, smothered and covered, with country ham and a pecan waffle cooked dark on the side.)A hungry visitor also would do well to stroll the Atlanta BeltLine, a 22-mile loop of railroad bed that is slowly being transformed into an urban promenade not unlike the High Line in New York, except with a lot more craft breweries.Along the well-developed section that winds through the Old Fourth Ward, you’ll find Nina & Rafi, a new restaurant that serves a chicken parm that has passed the test of more than one New Yorker, old-fashioned square pizzas topped with sizzling pepperoni cups, and crunchy-crusted Detroit-style pies. Expense-account diners can still get a taste of that Buckhead swank at Atlas, in the St. Regis Atlanta hotel. The chef, Christopher Grossman, has a French Laundry pedigree and the quiet, luxe dining room is hung with masterworks, many of them from the art collection of Joe Lewis, the billionaire behind the Tavistock Group, a private investment company that owns the hotel. Next door is Umi, whose modern take on Japanese food would be at home in New York or Los Angeles.Many visitors will be on the hunt for the kind of Southern food best eaten with your hands. Barbecue is not hard to find here, but Bryan Furman of B’s Cracklin’ Barbecue is the only pit master turning out whole-hog barbecue from heirloom-breed hogs. The Busy Bee Café, a half-mile from the stadium, has been around since the 1940s, and remains a reliable practitioner of the Southern staple known as the meat and three. Go for the oxtails or the fried chicken, and take whichever vegetable sides dishes the server recommends. The new Southern food movement has been nurtured for 10 years at Miller Union, which serves hyper-seasonal dishes alongside the most interesting wine list in town. Or head to Decatur, a small city that abuts Atlanta proper, and try Mr. Gillespie’s Revival, which serves the kind of food your Southern grandmother might make if she shopped only at the farmers’ market.One last piece of advice: Don’t sleep on the wings.“Wings have become a real part of Atlanta culture,” said Deborah VanTrece, the chef and owner of Twisted Soul Cookhouse & Pours. Ms. VanTrece, who will set up a grits bar and make deviled eggs for 3,000 as part of an N.F.L.-sponsored game-day tailgate party, is a former American Airlines flight attendant who used to eat chicken wings that were delivered to the cockpit when flights took the crew to Buffalo.“We thought that was everything, but now wings in Atlanta have taken on a life of their own,” she said. Her daughter, who is 26, has long debates with her friends over which of the dozens of places to get wings is the best.Wings are now so important to the city that the classic Atlanta beer-and-wing spot, J. R. Crickets, was invited to sell them in the State Farm Arena, the home of the Atlanta Hawks, which recently had a $200 million renovation. (Mr. Furman sells his barbecue there, too.)Insiders order lemon pepper wet, a style of wings that got a star turn on the FX series “Atlanta.”“Atlanta is an easy city to underestimate,” Ms. VanTrece said. “Sometimes I think it’s because the South in general gets a bad rap, but compared to 20 years ago, it’s night and day. You just have to make a little effort.”Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misstated some ingredients in the fried chicken at the original Watershed restaurant. The chicken was fried in lard and sweet butter, not peanut oil.Kim Severson is a Southern-based correspondent who covers the nation's food culture and contributes to NYT Cooking. She has written four books and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment.  @kimseverson • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySuper Bowl LIIIFrom the Colts toppling the Texans to the pass interference noncall heard ’round the world, the lead-up to this year’s Super Bowl had no shortage of drama.By Benjamin HoffmanIllustrations by Chris MorrisThis will be a week of hearing about Sean McVay and Tom Brady and Sean McVay and Bill Belichick and, if there’s time, Sean McVay. But before we get to all of that, we should take a look at how we ended up with the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots facing off in Super Bowl LIII. There were twists and turns during the playoffs. There were mistakes, there were penalties, there were upsets, and there was a whole lot of fun.After three years of injury, disappointment and frustration, it would have been easy to give up on Colts quarterback Andrew Luck. At 29 — and finally healthy — he marched his plucky young team into Houston and crushed the A.F.C. South champions. Luck made it look easy, and in sharp contrast to the last few years, he made it look fun.The only thing standing in the way of Dak Prescott’s first playoff win was, well, several defenders. The nuance and artistry of the 2019 season were briefly abandoned as the 235-pound Prescott morphed from quarterback to bulldozer, fighting his way through a crowd on a third-and-14 play late in the game to set up the Cowboys’ victory-sealing touchdown.Every superhero has a weakness, and the Baltimore rookie Lamar Jackson, even as he redefined how often a quarterback can run, had shown one: ball security. The Chargers, with fresh memories of a regular-season loss to the Ravens, crafted a defensive scheme around running down Jackson and knocking the ball loose, and, much to the Ravens’ chagrin, it worked to perfection.Five seconds aren’t a lot of time, but on Cody Parkey’s attempt at a 43-yard game-winning field goal, five seconds were enough for Philadelphia’s Treyvon Hester to get a hand on the ball; for the ball to ricochet off the left upright; for the ball to then bounce off the crossbar; and for Chicago’s hopes of a deep playoff run led by its championship-caliber defense to fade into nothing.Everyone said the Chiefs were all offense and no defense. Try explaining that to Andrew Luck, who had Kansas City defenders in his face for the entire 20 minutes 11 seconds he managed to keep his offense on the field in this divisional-round game. Luck was sacked three times and hit six more, and he also lost a fumble, spending the day mostly as a chilly spectator to the Patrick Mahomes Show.C.J. Anderson had stints with Carolina, Oakland and Los Angeles this season, but the Rams’ backup running back added a fourth bench to his collection when he punctuated one of his many long runs by taking a seat on the sideline with his Dallas counterparts. He and Todd Gurley beat Dallas at its own game, running the Cowboys into submission.Chargers quarterback Philip Rivers has done most everything a player can do on a football field. He has thrown 374 touchdown passes and won 118 regular-season games. He has survived injuries, he has adapted to changes in the game, and he most likely has earned a bust in Canton. But he has never beaten Tom Brady, and at this point it seems that he never will.If Alshon Jeffery had caught the ball, the Eagles could have won the game. If he had knocked it down, they would have had a chance. Unfortunately for the Eagles, and their fans’ belief that quarterback Nick Foles can always find a way, the ball sailed through Jeffery’s hands and into the waiting grasp of the Saints’ Marshon Lattimore.It is a noncall that will live in infamy. Drew Brees threw a pass toward Tommylee Lewis, and if Lewis caught it, New Orleans could milk the clock and kick a game-winning field goal. Out of desperation, Nickell Robey-Coleman, a defensive back for the Rams, threw himself at Lewis, arriving far too early and knocking the Saints receiver out of the ball’s path. It was fairly obvious in real time that it was a penalty, and painfully so on myriad replays. But the officials somehow missed it, and in a sport routinely consumed by replays, pass interference remains (for now) one of the few decisions that cannot be reviewed. The Saints officially lost in overtime, but they had the win stolen from them in regulation.Patrick Mahomes found his footing in the second half, turning a 14-0 deficit at halftime into a 31-31 tie at the end of regulation. He made impossible passes, stepped out of sacks and showed every bit of the talent that made him the talk of the N.F.L. all season. But the league’s overtime rules can be cruel, and Kansas City’s fate was essentially decided by the flip of a coin. The Patriots won the right to receive the ball, and Tom Brady quietly marched his team down the field for a winning touchdown. Mahomes, the player who can seemingly do anything he wants on the field, was left on the sideline in a jacket, witnessing his team’s defeat.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the Patriots' winning touchdown against Kansas City. It came on a running play, not a pass.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirRon Miller, who rose through the ranks of his father-in-law’s entertainment company, Walt Disney Productions, but whose time as chief executive was tumultuous and ended with his ouster, died on Saturday at his home in Napa, Calif. He was 85.The Walt Disney Family Museum in San Francisco, where he had been board president, said Mr. Miller died of congestive heart failure.When Mr. Miller became president and chief operating officer of Walt Disney Productions (now the Walt Disney Company) in 1980, his overriding mission was to reinvigorate its film division, where he had spent most of his career as a producer and executive.Live-action movies like “Herbie Goes Bananas” and “The Last Flight of Noah’s Ark” were not generating great business, and the studio’s new animated films were not as memorable as its classics like “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” and “Pinocchio.”“We’ve got trouble,” Mr. Miller told The Los Angeles Times a few months after his appointment. “And we’re doing something about it.”Over four years — as president and, for 18 months, chief executive — he oversaw the creation of Disney Channel, the company’s cable network. He established Touchstone Pictures as a vehicle to release films that were targeted at adults, scoring a quick hit with “Splash” (1984), a romantic comedy starring Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah.He also acquired a real estate company that helped Disney develop land near its Disney World complex in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., and brought the company closer to an agreement to open a Disney theme park in France. (It would open outside Paris in 1992.)But it was not enough. By May 1984, Mr. Miller was at the center of a corporate crisis.First, Disney agreed to fend off a hostile takeover attempt by the corporate raider Saul Steinberg with an extremely expensive buyback of Mr. Steinberg’s stake in the company. That led more than 20 disgruntled shareholders to sue the company for wasting corporate assets. Mr. Miller defended the board’s payment to Mr. Steinberg as a way to send him away and keep the company intact.Then, during the summer, an activist shareholder, Irwin Jacobs, who appeared poised to launch a takeover of his own, helped force Disney to drop its proposed acquisition of Gibson Greetings, the third-ranked company in the greeting card business.Even as the restive board was evaluating Mr. Miller’s performance in late August, he was trumpeting the synergy he envisioned for its costliest animated film ever, “The Black Cauldron,” marketing it as a theatrical release, a videocassette, a featured Disney Channel movie and a theme-park ride. When the film was released the next year, it flopped.Mr. Miller did not have much more time to contemplate Disney’s future. In early September, the company’s board asked him to resign.Before the board members voted, he looked at them and angrily asked: “Don’t you have something to say to me? Aren’t you men?”According to an account in “DisneyWar” (2005), by James B. Stewart, now a New York Times business columnist, Mr. Miller added: “I’ve given my life to this company. I’ve never worked anywhere else. I think I’ve taken great strides in leading it as far as it has come. I feel like this is a betrayal.”He was replaced as chief executive by Michael D. Eisner, whom Mr. Miller had earlier tried to recruit to Disney.“For my entire career, I have had great respect and fondness for Ron,” Mr. Eisner wrote on Twitter on Sunday. Mr. Eisner stepped down in 2005.Ronald William Miller was born on April 17, 1933, in Los Angeles. His mother, Stella (Bennett) Miller, worked for a candy maker; his father, John, was a tire builder at Goodyear Tire and Rubber.Ron played baseball and football in high school and received a scholarship to play football at the University of Southern California, where he was a receiver for three years. He did not graduate.While at U.S.C. he met Diane Disney, Walt’s older daughter, on a blind date. They married in 1954, around the time construction was starting on Disneyland, in Anaheim, Calif.; Mr. Miller’s first job for Mr. Disney was chauffeuring architectural plans between Disney offices in Burbank and the construction site. After serving in the Army, he played for the Los Angeles Rams in the 1956 football season, catching 11 passes for 129 yards.Mr. Disney watched Mr. Miller play two games that season but was concerned that his son-in-law might be grievously hurt — he saw him knocked unconscious on one play — and asked him to come work for him.“You know, I don’t want to be the father to your children,” Mr. Disney said, as Mr. Miller recalled in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1984. “You’re going to die out there.”Mr. Miller’s first job was with the crew of the film “Old Yeller” (1957). He went on to spend more than 20 years as a producer or executive producer of Disney movies like “That Darn Cat!” (1965), “Escape to Witch Mountain” (1975), “The Shaggy D.A.” (1976) and “Freaky Friday” (1977).Following his ouster, he and his wife moved to Northern California, where he ran Silverado Vineyards and where she conceived and opened the Disney Family Museum. She died in 2013.Mr. Miller’s survivors include his daughters, Joanna Miller, Tamara Diane Miller and Jennifer Goff; his sons, Christopher, Walter, Ronald and Patrick Miller; 13 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.In an interview last year with the San Francisco magazine The Nob Hill Gazette, Mr. Miller described what it was like working for Mr. Disney, who died in 1966.“I had always been shy,” he said, “and when I first started becoming involved in creative meetings, I laid back. I had good thoughts, but I let somebody else eventually come up with the idea.“But Walt wasn’t afraid to throw out any idea,” he continued. “He threw out everything. I realized you can’t prove to others you’ve got a certain talent unless you let them know you’ve got a talent.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe college football national championship game on Monday night matches two undefeated teams, Alabama and Clemson, both 14-0. It may seem hard to separate two teams that have swept all before them. But there are ways, and in the end, they point to one clear favorite in the game.[Alabama vs. Clemson: Follow our live coverage from the national championship game]Alabama and Clemson turned aside quite a few solid teams. Clemson had a slight edge, meeting 10 bowl teams to Alabama’s nine. But it isn’t difficult to make a bowl game these days. Using more exclusive criteria, Alabama clearly played a tougher schedule. It faced six teams in the final College Football Playoff top 25; Clemson faced three.Computer evaluations of schedules agree: Jeff Sagarin’s, for example, ranks Alabama’s schedule as the 28th toughest in the country and Clemson’s 45th.Both teams dealt out some whippings this season: Clemson won games by 61 and 60 points, Alabama by 55 and 50. Their average margins of victory were quite close, both about 31.5 points per game.But whether a team wins by 50 or 60 proves less about its inherent quality and more about its style of play, its use of substitutes and its thirst for the jugular. The closer games are more revealing.Each team had two games that it won by fewer than 20 points. Alabama beat Georgia in the Southeastern Conference championship game by 7. It beat Oklahoma in the national semifinals by 11. Both of those teams are in the top five in the College Football Playoff rankings.Clemson’s close games were less impressive. It beat Texas A&M by 2 and Syracuse, at home, by 4. Those teams are ranked 19th and 20th in the playoff rankings.Yes, two. Both teams hammered Louisville — Clemson by 61 at home and Alabama by 37 at a neutral site. But their more challenging common matchup was Texas A&M. With the caveat that Alabama was at home and Clemson was on the road, the wins were drastically different: Alabama won by 22 and Clemson by 2.Does a deeper plunge into statistics turn up some good signs for Clemson?Alabama was significantly more successful in the passing game. It averaged 11.3 yards per pass and gave up only 5.9. Clemson’s figures were 8.1 and 6.3. The gap in their differentials is huge: +5.4 for Alabama and +1.8 for Clemson.Clemson will have to make up this deficit with the running game: The Tigers outperformed Alabama offensively on the ground, 6.8 yards per carry to 5.3, and defensively, 2.4 to 3.4. Travis Etienne had more than 1,500 yards rushing for Clemson.Rushing is still a big part of the college game, but its influence wanes a little more every year, especially in closer games. Clemson will not want to fall behind Alabama and have to turn to the pass.On the other hand, one of Clemson’s biggest rushing efforts came in its close game against Syracuse: Etienne had a career-best 203 yards.At first glance, Clemson might have seemed to have the better semifinal, beating No. 3 Notre Dame by 27, while Alabama topped No. 4 Oklahoma by 11.In fact, despite the rankings, Oklahoma was a more formidable opponent than Notre Dame. Looking at the Irish’s undefeated season under the same microscope we are applying to Alabama and Clemson does not yield an impressive picture. Notre Dame played three top-25 teams and only one in the top 10. It had six games decided by 10 or fewer points, including home games against Vanderbilt and (oof) Ball State.(Central Florida, unbeaten until the Fiesta Bowl, also comes up short by these metrics: no top-25 teams on the schedule and a mere 1-point win over Memphis.)Few would argue that the SEC is not the best conference in the country. Sagarin rates the SEC West, which includes Alabama, first and the SEC East second. The divisions of the Atlantic Coast Conference rank seventh and eighth, behind both divisions of the Big Ten, the Big 12 and the Pac-12 North.The second-best team in the A.C.C., Syracuse, is ranked 28th by Sagarin. That’s behind nine SEC teams.There are plenty of people making computer rankings for college football, using a slew of methodologies. Kenneth Massey tracks 110 of them, and their choice is clear: Alabama is favored in 82 of them, and Clemson in 27. (One, mysteriously, goes for Notre Dame.)And the bookmakers agree. Alabama is favored by 5 to 6 points.Two perfect teams. But one is just a little more perfect.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. All I want to do this week is follow Tejal Rao’s new recipe for mall-style barbecue chicken pizza (above), a dish she wrote about movingly in The Times the other day.“Later, my brother and I would learn that we weren’t supposed to like mall food,” Tejal wrote in her most recent “Eat” column. “Certainly not mall pizza. But when we still had identification cards with the word ‘alien’ on them, we found that mall pizza helped us feel at home, assured us there was space for us here.”And, of course, the version of the dish Tejal makes now doesn’t just recreate the flavors of those California Pizza Kitchen slices she ate as a kid. It greatly improves on them. So read her words and get to it! Make the dough this evening, and you’ll be eating fine by Tuesday night.For dinner today, though: chicken piccata! Or maybe Provençal greens soup. I wouldn’t say no to twice-baked potatoes, either, the dough for the pizza proofing in the fridge and everyone crowded around the screen watching Clemson play Alabama for the college football national championship. (Roll Tide!)More ambitiously, if for instance football is not your game and you’d prefer to start the week working well and happily in the kitchen as Rudolf Serkin plays Beethoven over the Bluetooth, you could try out David Tanis’s new recipe, for mushroom and leek cottage pie. Or you could assemble Melissa Clark’s new recipe for a farro bowl with broccoli and lemon dressing.Later this week, whatever you get up to tonight, maybe you’ll make garlicky chicken with lemon-anchovy sauce. Or Yotam Ottolenghi’s shrimp Bolognese. Salmon with a compound butter of lime and herbs? Miso chicken? I do hope that someday soon you’ll make someone Alison Roman’s ginger-molasses cookies. They are sublime.There are thousands and thousands more recipes sitting prettily in wait for you on NYT Cooking. (You will, however, need a subscription to access them.) You can find further inspiration on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. And even if you’re not a subscriber, you can write us at cookingcare@nytimes.com for help with your cooking or with our site and apps.Now, it’s a far cry from Tempranillo and lobster knuckles, I know, but the third season of “True Detective” comes online on Jan. 13. Here’s the trailer, starring Mahershala Ali and Stephen Dorff.In case you missed it, Amanda Hess on whether cats are getting better at acting is a chef-finger-kiss example of how great a critic she is.After a long discussion with a pal about the merits of Charles Willeford’s dark and excellent novel “Cockfighter,” first released as a paperback in 1962 and revised a decade later for hardcover, I went to look up The Times’s original review, published in 1972. Classic shade.Finally, last week the historian Michael Beschloss posted a photograph I hadn’t seen before, of Nancy Pelosi with John F. Kennedy. How about that? See you on Wednesday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the individual photographed with Nancy Pelosi. It is John F. Kennedy, not John F. Kennedy Jr.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerThe Oakland Athletics were overjoyed to choose Kyler Murray with the ninth pick in the baseball draft last June.“We just don’t see athletes like this on the baseball field very often,” their scouting director, Eric Kubota, said then, praising Murray’s instincts despite his relative lack of baseball experience. “He’s just a tremendous athlete, which can translate to the baseball field in a lot of ways. He has a chance to really be dominant on both the offensive end and from a defensive standpoint.”Kubota said the risk of Murray’s playing quarterback at the University of Oklahoma was worth taking.“Frankly, we’re kind of excited to be an Oklahoma fan for 12 games,” he said.Everybody knows what happened next. Those 12 regular-season games led to the conference title game and the Orange Bowl, and by the end, Murray had more than 5,000 all-purpose yards, 54 overall touchdowns, a Heisman Trophy — and a new career path.Murray announced via Twitter on Monday that he was “firmly and fully committing my life and time to becoming an N.F.L. quarterback.” His statement made no mention of baseball, the A’s, or the $4.6 million deal he reached with them last June, with the promise to play only baseball after the 2018 college football season.The A’s were the first team to hold formal workouts for pitchers and catchers on Monday — they started earlier than other teams, to prepare for a season-opening series in Japan with the Seattle Mariners on March 20 and 21 — and Murray will not be joining them. He will return $1.29 million of his $1.5 million signing bonus, according to ESPN, and will not collect the remaining $3.16 million that he was due to be paid next month.He had been assigned a locker in the clubhouse, and on Monday morning, Oakland officials had expressed hope that Murray would soon slip into his No. 73 jersey.Bob Melvin, the A’s manager, said he was “cautiously optimistic” that Murray would choose baseball, according to the San Francisco Chronicle. Yet, realistically, those hopes had been dimming since Murray declared for the N.F.L. draft on Jan. 14. The A’s retain his rights should Murray ever reconsider, but they will get no compensation pick for his defection. They gambled and lost — but baseball lost even bigger.Murray teased the possibility of playing both sports in a photo he posted to Twitter in November, re-enacting a ubiquitous Bo Jackson photo from the 1980s by posing shirtless with football pads on his shoulders and a baseball bat behind his back.But Jackson, of course, did not play quarterback, an all-consuming position that leaves no room for distraction. To maximize his appeal to teams — and his potential for success — Murray chose football exclusively, which most likely will bring him more money, at least at first, and definitely offers a quicker path to glory.The sports are fundamentally different in their development processes, of course. Almost every baseball player logs years in the minors, riding buses to remote outposts for a punishing daily test that is at least as much mental as physical. A first-round N.F.L. quarterback is typically hailed as the instant savior of his franchise.Murray’s predecessor as Heisman Trophy winner and Oklahoma quarterback, Baker Mayfield, needed one month to establish himself as the starter for the Cleveland Browns. He sat the first two weeks, came off the bench in Week 3 and was starting for good by Sept. 30. What’s more appealing to a 21-year-old athlete: the Mayfield plan, or a summer trying to hit sliders for an A’s affiliate in Beloit, Wis., or Stockton, Calif.?Murray’s uncle, Calvin Murray, offers an example of the uncertainties of life as a baseball prospect. The San Francisco Giants chose Calvin Murray with the seventh overall pick in the 1992 draft. He played more than 1,600 professional games, but fewer than 300 in the majors. The player taken one pick before Murray did just a bit better. His name was Derek Jeter.We’ll probably never know what Kyler Murray could have been as a baseball player. He could always try the sport again if football fizzles, as Tim Tebow is doing with the Mets. But baseball, as an institution, does not give itself the best chance to attract an athlete like Murray, whose bonus potential was limited by the strict draft-slotting system instituted in 2012.The draft system has always incentivized losing, to some extent — in 2009 and 2010, the Washington Nationals plotted a new course by taking Stephen Strasburg and Bryce Harper first over all in consecutive drafts. But by awarding a fixed amount of bonus money to teams — with the worst team getting by far the largest allowance — the new rules have greatly encouraged protracted rebuilding.The Houston Astros understood this better than most, and became a perennial power by using the system to their advantage. They have spawned so many imitators that a record eight teams tallied 95 losses last season.The players’ union has been dismayed by this trend, which has lessened demand — and therefore salaries — for veteran free agents. Murray’s case shows another regrettable consequence. Perhaps if the A’s had been able to offer more money to Murray last June, they could have kept him off the football field entirely.Instead, their $4.6 million bought only a half-measure, allowing Murray one final fling with an old flame. As it turns out, he fell truly, madly, deeply back in love. The A’s get their ring back, but baseball is left at the altar.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill Pennington and Ken BelsonThe N.F.L.’s 32 owners made an unexpected announcement after meeting a few weeks ago: The league was strengthening rules that obligate teams to consider minority candidates when hiring coaches and executives in their front offices.At the time, the league said it was just trying to beef up existing regulations, not reacting to criticism that teams had been skirting the rules for years.“Our focus was simply: How do we make the Rooney Rule better?” Robert Gulliver, the league’s chief human resources officer, said, referring to the rule adopted in 2003 and named for Dan Rooney, the owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers at the time who pushed for the regulations.Now, the league’s stated commitment to the rule will be put to the test.On Monday, the number of African-American coaches fired in 2018 soared to five, leaving only two black coaches in a league where at least 70 percent of the players are African-American.Race is already a much-discussed topic in relation to the league. Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who in 2016 began kneeling during the national anthem to protest racism and police brutality toward people of color, has not played in the league for the last two seasons. His protests amplified an already polarizing debate across the country, and he has filed a grievance accusing the N.F.L. of colluding to keep him off the field.Coaches losing their jobs at the conclusion of the regular season is routine and expected, as they fall victim to the merciless pressure from owners and fans to succeed year after year. In addition to the five black coaches fired, three white coaches were let go this season, in Green Bay, Tampa Bay and Miami. But with the N.F.L. under pressure to increase the percentage of minority coaches and executives, the makeup of the latest class of jettisoned coaches was especially startling.Four black coaches were fired Sunday or Monday, including the Jets’ Todd Bowles, who was let go shortly after his team’s final loss Sunday. The Jets had a 14-34 record in the last three seasons under Bowles.Marvin Lewis, who had been at the helm of the Cincinnati Bengals since 2003, was fired Monday. Though he had resurrected the moribund Bengals and took them to the playoffs multiple times, he never won a playoff game and this season was Cincinnati’s third consecutive one with a losing record.Also fired Monday was Denver Broncos Coach Vance Joseph, who had presided over the first back-to-back losing seasons for the Broncos since the early 1970s. In Arizona, Steve Wilks had been the Cardinals’ coach for just one season when he was fired Monday after his team compiled a league-worst record of 3-13.In October, another African-American coach, Hue Jackson, was fired after his teams were 3-36-1 in roughly two and a half seasons.The two black head coaches still in the N.F.L. are Anthony Lynn of the Los Angeles Chargers (12-4), who are headed to a wild-card playoff game Sunday against the Baltimore Ravens, and Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers (9-6-1).Carolina Panthers Coach Ron Rivera, who is Latino, is the only other minority head coach.With eight coaching vacancies, it is possible that some of the recently dismissed coaches will be leading candidates for those openings; their experience and certain attributes may be a better fit with other teams. Jackson, for example, was on Lewis’s coaching staff in Cincinnati. And there are other minority candidates, like the Kansas City offensive coordinator Eric Bieniemy and Stanford Coach David Shaw, whose names have popped up in coaching discussions.But the next several weeks will unquestionably heighten the scrutiny on the N.F.L.’s hiring practices and how reliably, or willingly, the Rooney Rule will be employed.Gulliver would not admit something that many onlookers and people around the N.F.L. have long suspected: that teams have been doing only the bare minimum to comply with, or sidestepping, the Rooney Rule. After all, if the rule was working as intended, and the percentage of minority coaches and executives was growing steadily, why would the rule need to be strengthened?Under the new regulations enacted a few weeks ago, when teams are looking to fill positions, they must interview at least one minority candidate from a list kept by the league’s Career Development Advisory Panel, or a minority candidate not currently working with a team. Teams also must keep detailed records of who they interview, which is perhaps a response to criticism from minority candidates who say they are routinely called, but not formally interviewed, by teams trying to do the least possible to fulfill their obligations.After it was first established, the Rooney Rule appeared to be having an impact. By 2011, eight N.F.L. teams had coaches of color, the most to that point, or since.Yet, at the same time, hiring minority front office executives did not keep pace. And recently, one of the few black general managers in the league, Reggie MacKenzie, who was named the N.F.L. executive of the year in 2016, was forced out as the Oakland Raiders chief football executive. Ozzie Newsome, another African-American general manager, is expected to retire from his post with the Ravens at the end of this season.The N.F.L. has likewise been challenged in its efforts to expand opportunities for black assistant coaches, a job that is the natural springboard to a head coaching position. Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, noted in a 2017 report that the percentage of assistant coaches of color had declined slightly to 31.4 percent. The number of African-American offensive or defensive coordinators had dropped from 14 to 13, Lapchick said.Since assistant coaches typically get swept out the door along with a fired head coach, the number of vacant N.F.L. coaching jobs this week is likely several dozen, even if the eight unoccupied head coach positions garner all the attention.That is a lot of interviewing about to take place in the N.F.L. not long after 32 owners stood behind new, reinforced rules designed to increase the number minorities seriously considered for just such hires.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Virginia Lozano(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The U.S. transportation secretary called for an inquiry into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Boeing 737 Max 8.Elaine Chao asked her agency’s internal watchdog to audit the approval process, which has been under scrutiny since the crash last week of an Ethiopian Airlines jet — the second deadly crash involving the aircraft in less than five months.One concern is the role that Boeing employees played. Since 2005, the agency has allowed manufacturers to choose their own employees to act on behalf of the F.A.A. to help certify new aircraft.Also today, the White House nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to become the permanent head of the F.A.A.Separately, Boeing is so revered in Ethiopia that planes are often referred to as “Boeings.” Now, the long love affair between a country and its airplanes is being put to the test._____2. One was a dairy farmer, another aspired to be a pilot. There was a New Zealand Football player, and a 3-year-old described as “full of energy, love and happiness.”The 50 people killed in a terrorist attack at two New Zealand mosques last week extended across generations and nationalities. Here are some of their stories. Above, an Australian imam leading a prayer near one of the mosques.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is expected to return to Christchurch as victims’ families prepare for funeral services there. In an impassioned speech to Parliament, she said she would do everything she could to deny the gunman attention, and instead focus on the victims.“He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” she said. “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”_____3. Washington has been pushing Iraq to confront and sideline Iran, increasing tensions not just with Baghdad but also within the Trump administration.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is visiting the Middle East this week to advance the effort. Under his proposed plans, the State Department would designate Iran’s military Islamic Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terrorist organization — a first for a unit of another government’s military. Above, Iraqi Shiite militia forces, which often have ties to Iran, during a graduation ceremony last week.American officials said that the plan would put U.S. troops and intelligence officers at risk of similar actions from foreign governments._____4. Extreme weather has devastated Southern Africa and parts of the U.S.In Mozambique and nearby countries, a deadly cyclone nearly obliterated the worst-affected areas. Cyclone Idai has affected more than 1.5 million people, with a death toll now in the dozens but feared far higher.A U.N. official said it could be one of the worst weather-related disasters ever in the Southern Hemisphere. Above, residents searching for bodies in Chimanimani, Zimbabwe.And in the U.S., the record floods that pummeled the Midwest are inflicting a devastating toll on farmers and ranchers at a moment when they can least afford it. We also have a map showing how quickly the region flooded._____5. West Virginia sued a retired top bishop and the state’s only Roman Catholic diocese, saying that they “knowingly employed pedophiles.”In an unusual approach, the civil suit claimed the diocese and the bishop violated the state’s Consumer Credit and Protection Act. The suit said they “failed to conduct adequate background checks” and disclose to parents “the inherent danger” of sending their children to the church’s schools and camps.The bishop, Michael Bransfield, above, was recently restricted from ministry following allegations he had sexually harassed adults.Separately, Pope Francis rejected the resignation of a French cardinal who was convicted of covering up sexual abuse._____6. Pacific Gas & Electric, California’s biggest utility, has repeatedly caused deadly wildfires, yet often put profits ahead of safety, a Times investigation shows.Five of the 10 most destructive fires in the state since 2015 have been linked to the company’s electrical network. Regulators found that in many fires, the utility violated state law or could have done more to make its equipment safer. Above, the Camp Fire in Magalia, Calif., in November.“They have simply been caught red-handed over and over again, lying, manipulating or misleading the public,” Gov. Gavin Newsom said in an interview. “They cannot be trusted.”In a statement, PG&E executives acknowledged mistakes and said they were committed to improving safety._____7. Fallout from the “Varsity Blues” college admissions scandal continues.The University of Southern California blocked students who might be associated with the scheme from registering for classes. “Following the review,” university officials posted on Twitter, “we will take the proper action related to their status, up to revoking admission or expulsion.”And a number of other colleges have warned they might punish students connected to the federal fraud case.The scandal is also bringing attention to athletic recruiting. The practice helps build competitive teams, but now some administrators are calling for more scrutiny of the process._____8. Levi’s is having a moment.The maker of denim and Dockers will start publicly trading this week, a milestone for a 165-year-old company that has experienced a resurgence in the past decade. Levi’s anticipates this week’s stock offering will raise more than $100 million, with a company valuation between $5 billion and $6 billion.We took a look at the history of the brand, from the invention of the blue jean in 1873 to Beyoncé’s cutoff shorts at Coachella in 2018.Separately, the ride-hailing company Lyft hopes to be valued at up to $23 billion in its initial public offering._____9. “I try and make it so that if anyone’s offended, I can explain why they shouldn’t be.”For Ricky Gervais, known for his deeply cringe-inducing comedy, the idea of being an outsider has always been important. His new Netflix show, “After Life,” is no exception: He plays a small-town journalist who abandons all social norms after being widowed.The comedian spoke with our Talk columnist about provocation, outrage culture and how “comedy is an intellectual pursuit, not an emotional one.”_____10. Finally, Puerto Rico’s local food movement is finding its footing.For years, the island imported nearly all its food. Then two hurricanes in late 2017 slowed a budding effort to reclaim the island’s agricultural and culinary independence.But now, even with some power shortages and food supply issues, Puerto Rico’s chefs and farmers are rebuilding and forming new connections. Pernil, above, is one of Puerto Rico’s most-loved dishes.Our reporter visited the island and found that a dedication to local food, and the island’s traditions, was back “with a vengeance,” as one chef put it.Have a delectable night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe state’s politicians have rejected the will of the voters and taken coverage from 60,000 Utahns.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.In November, the people of Utah voted to provide health insurance for about 150,000 state residents who lacked it. Last week, Utah’s legislators overruled their own constituents and took away insurance from about 60,000 of those 150,000 people.The legislators claimed they were trying to save money, but that’s not a credible rationale: The federal government would have covered the bulk of the cost. The true reason — which the legislators weren’t willing to admit publicly — was a philosophical objection to government-provided health insurance.Utah’s turnabout is the latest worrisome example of politicians rejecting the will of voters.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The offending politicians have been mostly Republican, as they are in Utah. “You see a rising, disturbing trend here of equivocation, if not worse, in the commitment to democratic norms on the part of a growing number of Republicans,” Larry Diamond, a Stanford University democracy expert, told my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick. “Is this what the Republican Party wants to be? The anti-democracy party?”There has also been one major example of Democratic officials deciding they don’t care what their constituents want: Last year, the city council in the District of Columbia reversed an increase in the minimum wage for tipped workers, even though the ballot initiative approving it had passed with 55 percent of the vote.City Lab’s Kriston Capps and Sarah Holder have put together a list of state legislatures that have overruled their own voters, including in Idaho, Maine and Michigan. In Missouri, some legislators have pushed to subvert a ballot initiative that would reduce gerrymandering. And in Utah, the legislature has also partly overturned a new law on medical marijuana.I find that last example especially helpful in thinking through my own view about this trend. I would vote against marijuana legalization, because I think it promotes drug use that damages health. But if my state voted to legalize marijuana in a referendum, I would still be unhappy if the legislature then reversed the result.A final point: I understand why some political scientists dislike government by ballot initiative. Direct democracy can sometimes create problematic laws. So if a state legislature wanted to reduce the ability of voters to make laws by referendum, I could see arguments in favor of doing so. But that’s very different from undoing the result of a referendum that has already passed.Sit, Zion, sit.The most exciting player in college basketball — Duke’s Zion Williamson — suffered a knee injury on Wednesday night, which raised a fascinating question, as Marc Tracy of The Times points out: Should Williamson sit out the rest of the college season, to avoid risk of further injury before he likely turns pro this summer?“The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple,” Tracy writes. “Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.”Duke is making bundles of money off Williamson and his teammates. So are ESPN, CBS and Nike, among others. But the players themselves get only scraps, until they turn pro.“To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Ramogi Huma, an advocate for players’ rights, told Tracy.I agree. Until college athletics has a fairer economic system, players should err on the side of extreme caution. Some top college football players have already begun skipping year-end bowl games, for this reason. Whatever Williamson does, I suspect we’ll see more athletes make similar decisions in coming years.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)There’s a lot going on with the Super Bowl, even if you’re not into sports. It’s a quintessential — if fraught — American spectacle. There are the ads. This year, as The Guardian reported, the marijuana industry is counting CBS’s mere consideration of an ad advocating for the legalization of medical cannabis a win.There’s the halftime show. Maroon 5, Sunday’s headliner, along with Travis Scott and Big Boi, canceled their pregame news conference, where they almost certainly would have gotten questions about national anthem protests.For the first time, male dance-style cheerleaders will be on the sideline, making history with the Rams. And then, of course, there’s the actual football. On that, I’ll defer to my colleague Ben Shpigel (who certainly knows a lot more than the Super Bowl-predicting giraffe in Nashville — although it did pick the Rams):In their third season since relocating from St. Louis, the Rams will try to deliver Los Angeles its first football championship since 1984. To do so, they must outlast the New England Patriots, who are appearing in their ninth Super Bowl in 18 seasons.The Rams’ ascent to the N.F.L. elite, from 4-12 in 2016 to consecutive N.F.C. West titles, traces back to their decision in January 2017 to hire as coach Sean McVay, then all of 30 years old. Across the last two seasons, the Rams have scored the most points in the league and are tied for the most wins, with 24.McVay has optimized quarterback Jared Goff, a former No. 1 pick, while assembling a strong locker-room culture. With a series of bold personnel moves, General Manager Les Snead has built a formidable core around Goff, defensive tackle Aaron Donald and running back Todd Gurley.This season, the Rams won their first eight games, and 11 of their first 12, before a late slump — consecutive losses in prime-time, at Chicago and to Philadelphia — coerced them into reshaping their offensive identity. The Rams have since leaned on Gurley and C.J. Anderson, released three times since April, to bully teams with a dynamic running attack.Anderson is one of only four Rams with Super Bowl experience. The Patriots have 38, including the 41-year-old quarterback Tom Brady, who is bidding for a record sixth Super Bowl win. His first came against the Rams, in Super Bowl XXXVI, 17 years ago Sunday.“This is the big dance, you know?” Donald, the defensive tackle, said. “We’ve played great football all year, but this is the last one.”(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• “I think Nancy Pelosi is hurting our country very badly by doing what’s she doing and, ultimately, I think I’ve set the table very nicely,” President Trump said in an exclusive interview. He called border security negotiations a “waste of time.” [The New York Times]• Gone in a generation: Here’s a powerful visual story showing how California’s fires are getting more destructive as a result of climate change. [The Washington Post]• Latino voters in California turned out for the midterms at levels normally seen in presidential elections, helping to flip seven House seats. [McClatchy]• The first in a series of storms swept across the Southland, causing evacuations, beach closings and debris flows. Lightning also struck a jet at LAX (no injuries were reported) and the Chevron refinery in El Segundo. [The Los Angeles Times]• My colleague Dana Goldstein wrote about meeting Alex Caputo-Pearl, now the president of the Los Angeles teachers’ union, in 2011. She’s been reporting on education for 13 years now, and times have changed. [The New York Times]• Another way education is changing? For the first time in 15 years, applications to U.C. schools from would-be freshmen dropped — a sign that declining college enrollment nationally could be spreading to the West Coast. [The Los Angeles Times]• Yesterday would have been Jackie Robinson’s 100th birthday. So here are 100 photos from his rich and complex life — including his time as a standout athlete at U.C.L.A. [The New York Times]• Clementine Creevy, the frontwoman of the band Cherry Glazerr, has proudly represented Los Angeles’s do-it-yourself rock scene since she was a teenager. The band’s third album is worth a listen, Jon Pareles writes. [The New York Times]• Yes, the government shutdown caused some lasting damage to national parks. But it’s kind of nice to read about elephant seal pups that had taken over a parking lot at the Point Reyes National Seashore. “What an interesting management challenge for us,” the park superintendent said. [The Press Democrat]• The Oscars are coming up. The Carpetbagger, Kyle Buchanan, writes that at this point, the people running the show seem almost ashamed. They even managed to upset Lin-Manuel Miranda — although the Academy relented on the point of contention, sort of. [The New York Times]I’ll save you the Google: The game, in Atlanta, starts at 3:30 p.m. Pacific time. You can watch it on CBS or stream it for free at CBSSports.com, the app or on CBS All Access.The arguably better game, the Puppy Bowl, starts at 12 p.m. on Animal Planet.If you feel like going out, here’s a list from LAist of places that will have deals or will be showing the game in the L.A. area. Here’s one for San Diego from KGTV. And here’s one for the Bay from Eater.Have a great weekend. (We’ll have a holiday recommendation from Tejal Rao on Monday.)California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byExit InterviewBy Alexis SoloskiJill Valentine is pretty sure the kids have a nickname for her: Fun Killer. For nearly four years, Ms. Valentine has been the head guardian of “School of Rock,” which played its last performance on Sunday at the Winter Garden Theater. Guardians care for child actors during rehearsals and before and after performances, making sure they’re fed, watered and rested. Ms. Valentine distributes children’s pain relievers, she runs science flashcards, she confiscates contraband.She doesn’t have children of her own — “I have two cats and a boyfriend, that’s enough!” she said — but 63 have come into and out of her care since she joined “School of Rock” for pre-Broadway rehearsals in 2015. Thirteen children, age about 8 to 13, star in every performance, with four more waiting backstage. Thirty-six alumni joined them for Sunday’s show-closing jam session.Before the Saturday evening performance, Ms. Valentine met me at the show’s rehearsal space, now mostly denuded and bubble wrapped. She talked about the responsibilities of the job, the hectic schedule and why there are no children showmances. Her feelings about the show’s ending were bittersweet, but not so bittersweet that she hadn’t booked a 5 a.m. Miami-bound flight for Monday. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.What exactly is a guardian?It’s the responsible person for the child actor. We are responsible for their safety, health, well-being from the time that they walk into the stage door until the time they walk out.I will be in two hours before the curtain goes up. Then we pick up the kids about an hour and 15 minutes before curtain. There are 17 of them. It’s a lot. They’ll go upstairs, drop their stuff, do a physical and vocal warm-up in our green room and then we are off to the races — hair calls, costumes, mic check, all that stuff.Once the kids go downstairs for the show, we don’t have any breaks. They’re onstage all the time and we’re backstage. They go upstairs for intermission — quick snack, water break, bathroom break, game of cards. And then right back downstairs again until the end of the show.What’s the popular snack these days?Their tastes are not what you would think of as kid tastes. They like poke bowls. They’re into Maison Kayser. They don’t eat kid food. They’re like very short adults. But if there’s a birthday and we have birthday cake, everyone is in.What do you do to bond with them? If you ask them real questions about what their life is like and then follow up, they know that you care. We spend 40 hours a week together; that’s an incredible amount of time. They really do become like family.How do you reassure the parents?When we start rehearsal, I do a parent orientation. I have an eight-page packet that I send out. Like, so your child’s in a Broadway show, here’s what you need to know, a step-by-step guide. They have my cellphone number. I get texts, I get phone calls, I get emails.What emergencies have you handled?We’ve certainly had bloody noses, we’ve stood offstage with trash cans. We say, if you think you’re going to be sick, please walk off the stage, we will be there with a trash can for you. I have to ask the kids, do you need to stop? Can you finish the show? It has to be the actors’ choice.Do you handle a lot of stage fright?There’s usually a little bit of nervousness for the first or even the second show. We try really hard to encourage parents to maybe hold off on inviting everyone you’ve ever met to see your child perform for like a week.Do you have ways of celebrating when someone leaves the show?We do. We call it graduation. The audience gets to cheer and afterward we do a graduation ceremony, everybody sings “Pomp and Circumstance.” They get a little mortar board, they sign the back of the set, they get a little diploma.Are they sad to leave?Yeah, they are. And sometimes it’s really hard to watch them go. It’s also pretty great. We have a lot of alumni come back. They can come in and go to warm up and sit with the other kids. They’re all coming back tomorrow! So many of them! It’s going to be nuts.[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]So Fun Killer, how do you kill the fun?If we’re having a tough day I’m one who comes in and is like: “What are you, crazy? We’re doing a show. You cannot throw a football backstage. You just can’t.” I’ve definitely taken away a basketball, a skateboard.Do you have a favorite group of kids?I try very hard not to have favorites. Kids know and it doesn’t really suit what we’re trying to teach them, which is professionalism.Have there been any kid showmances?Not really. Our age group tends to be before that kicks in. Mostly boys and girls have cooties. Plus we have no time!What’s the hardest part of the job?I think the hardest thing is to be consistent. It doesn’t matter how tired I am. Or if it’s Sunday night of a five-show weekend and all I want to do is go home. Because when the stuff hits the fan [Ms. Valentine used a more colorful term], I need those kids to turn to me and to trust me.Is it sad to leave the show?A little. It’s my sixth Broadway show. I know what this is. I’m O.K. But in packing up the office, I’m going through paperwork and old schedules, drawings the kids have made. Which is like, Oh, right. Remember that? We’ve done so much! If anything, my overwhelming feeling is not sorrow, but pride.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow far is the Supreme Court willing to open the public square to more overtly religious expression? A pending case may tell us.By Linda GreenhouseContributing Opinion Writer Even before last month’s Supreme Court argument, the smart-money consensus was that those challenging the Latin cross that stands 40 feet tall on public land in Bladensburg, Md., would lose. Without debating that prediction, I want to make an obvious but, so far, underappreciated point: It really matters how the American Humanist Association and the other nonreligious plaintiffs lose.If the justices permit the ultimate symbol of Christianity to remain, towering over other structures at the junction of two major roads, what theory will they use?Will they say that even if such an object would be unconstitutional if erected today, this one should be grandfathered because it was put up by local citizens as a World War I memorial and stood without controversy for most of the ensuing 93 years?Will the justices decide, as one lawyer, Neal Katyal, insisted in defense of the cross, that despite its origin as the centerpiece of Christian theology, a cross designated a war memorial acquires “an independent secular meaning?” (The Supreme Court’s leading precedent requires that in order not to violate the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause, a government display of a religious symbol must have a “secular legislative purpose.”) The federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., applying Supreme Court precedents, found the cross unconstitutional.  If the justices overturn that decision, will they take the opportunity to repudiate precedent and embrace an overtly more religion-friendly approach? If so, what will that approach be?In the courtroom, one proposal came from Michael Carvin, one of the lawyers defending the cross, who argued that all religious symbols should be “presumptively valid except in the rare circumstances where they’ve been misused to proselytize.” The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, an influential group that appears often at the Supreme Court on behalf of religious expression, went a step further in its “friend of the court” brief.  It took the position that only those actions that would have been considered an establishment of religion “at the time of the founding” should be held unconstitutional today, an originalist test that the brief argued would prohibit only direct government control of religious doctrine or compulsion of religious observance.I’ve arranged these options in order of magnitude, from the minimalist to the radical, so that it’s easy to see why it matters how the court decides this case, The American Legion v. American Humanist Association. Even the minimalist option is problematic, because there’s really no such thing as “just this one cross” at a moment of breathtaking convergence between a powerful social movement now battling the country’s secularizing demographic forces and a Supreme Court now populated by committed religious conservatives.The court has upheld the public display of religious symbols before: a Nativity scene in the company of candy canes and reindeer in a city park and  a Ten Commandments on a monolith on the grounds of the Texas State Capitol surrounded by many other historic monuments. It has never upheld a solitary Latin cross, let alone one four stories high. A brief filed by the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty and other Christian and Jewish groups on behalf of those challenging the cross emphasized the profound religious meaning of the Latin cross — “not just an elongated plus sign” but “a symbol that makes no sense apart from the crucifixion, the resurrection, and Christianity’s promise of eternal life.” So while a Supreme Court endorsement of “just” this one cross would be a significant step toward opening the public square to more overtly religious expression, there is ample reason to think the court won’t stop there.A core project of today’s Supreme Court under the leadership of Chief Justice John Roberts is to reorient the First Amendment’s two religion clauses, the one that prohibits religious “establishment” and the other that protects “free exercise.” Accomplishing this requires defining narrowly what counts as an establishment, as a 5-to-4 majority did five years ago in the Town of Greece case,  upholding the practice of Christian prayers delivered at town government meetings on the ground that the prayers were simply speech that no one had to listen to.And in the name of free exercise, the project requires broad carve-outs for religious believers from government regulation in the name of free exercise. This is a complex area where statutory and constitutional law intersect. In the 2014 Hobby Lobby case,  the court allowed a business owner to refuse on religious grounds to cover birth control in his employee health plan in defiance of the Affordable Care Act.That 5-to-4 decision was based on an interpretation of a federal statute, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The court’s most conservative justices — Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh — are currently trolling for a case that would provide a vehicle for reinterpreting the Free Exercise Clause to give the same robust protection for believers as the statute, in the court’s view, currently does. Achieving that goal means overturning a 1990 precedent, Employment Division v. Smith,  which offered a parsimonious interpretation of the Free Exercise Clause and prompted Congress to pass the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in an attempt at a legislative workaround.An opinion all four justices signed in January demonstrated their hunger for a case that could lead to that decision’s overturning. They explained why the court was not hearing an appeal brought by a public high school football coach who was fired for insisting on kneeling and praying on the football field after the superintendent told him to stop. The four justices noted, with evident regret, that the court had not been asked in that case to revisit either the 1990 decision or a 1977 statutory ruling that interpreted the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to place only a minimal burden on employers when confronted with a religiously observant employee seeking some sort of accommodation.In fact, on the court’s current docket, there happens to be a new appeal that asks the justices directly to overturn the 1977 decision, Trans World Airlines v. Hardison. The new case, Patterson v. Walgreen Co.,  is awaiting the court’s action on whether to accept it for argument and decision.Title VII of the Civil Rights Act requires employers to “reasonably accommodate” an employee’s religious practice as long as the employer can do so “without undue hardship” on the conduct of the company’s business. The court’s 1977 decision defined “undue hardship” as any accommodation that imposed more than a “de minimis cost” on the employer, an easy test for employers to meet and a very difficult one for religious employees. The only two dissenters then were the court’s most liberal members, Justices Thurgood Marshall and William Brennan, who argued for a more generous view of the required accommodation. That all the conservative justices were in the majority demonstrates how the polarity on church-state issues has shifted in the intervening decades.The new case was filed by a Seventh-day Adventist whose need not to work on Saturdays was usually accommodated by the pharmacy company. In fact, he had received a promotion, but he was fired after refusing a shift during an emergency that occurred on a Saturday. The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit upheld Walgreen’s position that it offered all the accommodation required.The appetite of the two newest justices, Mr. Kavanaugh and Mr. Gorsuch, for cases that would enlarge the constitutional playing field for religion appears nearly boundless. Along with Justice Alito, they are looking for vehicles for the court to expand the right of churches to receive direct public grants of money. Justice Kavanaugh, joined by the other two, issued a statement this month explaining why the court was not hearing a case challenging New Jersey’s prohibition against historic preservation grants to churches. The specific facts of the case then before the court were not sufficiently clear for the court to accept the church’s appeal, Justice Kavanaugh said. But he then added, gratuitously, that New Jersey’s position amounted to a “pure discrimination against religion,” a clear invitation to other churches in New Jersey or elsewhere to serve up such a case. Two years ago, in an opinion by Chief Justice Roberts, the court held that a Missouri church was constitutionally entitled to compete for a state grant to enhance the safety of its preschool playground. In an unusual footnote, the chief justice wrote that the court’s decision involved only “express discrimination based on religious identity with respect to playground resurfacing” and that the court was not addressing “religious uses of funding or other forms of discrimination.” As an effort to limit the scope of the decision, the footnote was an obvious failure: Only three other justices signed onto it, and Justices Thomas and Gorsuch expressly disavowed it, meaning that the footnote did not speak for a majority of the court. Justice Gorsuch, who had been on the court for a little over a month, in fact took the occasion to write a separate concurring opinion in which he suggested that the court might consider overturning a 2004 decision that upheld a restriction on state scholarships for study for the ministry.In that case, Locke v. Davey,  Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote for a 7-to-2 majority. The Establishment Clause would have permitted a state to offer ministry students the same scholarship eligibility as other students if the state wanted such an expansive scholarship program, the chief justice wrote. But if the state chose to limit its scholarships to those pursuing secular careers, he added, the Free Exercise clause did not entitle a ministry student to demand equal treatment. There must be some “play in the joints” between the two religion clauses, he concluded. It was one of Chief Justice Rehnquist’s last important opinions; he died the following year.Although the Locke v. Davey decision is only 15 years old, it seems to come to us from a different world. What’s now in play is not the joints. It is, rather, the heart and soul of a diverse country that is going in one direction while the Supreme Court — as in other areas, including labor law  and gun rights  — is hurtling in the other, toward a destination fraught with uncertainty and danger.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Linda Greenhouse, the winner of the 1998 Pulitzer Prize, writes on alternate Thursdays about the Supreme Court and the law. She reported on the Supreme Court for The Times from 1978 to 2008, and is the author of several books.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Fausset and Niraj ChokshiLINDEN, Ala. — The editorial in The Democrat-Reporter, the newspaper that has served the small western Alabama town of Linden since 1879, appeared on Page 2 last Thursday, but it read as though it could have been written the year the paper was founded.“Time for the Ku Klux Klan to ride again,” it began.The unsigned opinion piece, railing against “Democrats in the Republican Party and Democrats” and calling for the return of the most infamous white supremacist group in the nation’s history, went largely unnoticed until Monday, when two student journalists shared photographs of it online.By Tuesday it was national news, the subject of numerous reports illustrated with stock photos of hooded Klansmen, and the target of widespread condemnation. Representative Terri A. Sewell, a Democrat whose congressional district includes Linden, called on the editor and publisher of the paper, Goodloe Sutton, to apologize and step down.“For the millions of people of color who have been terrorized by white supremacy, this kind of ‘editorializing’ about lynching is not a joke — it is a threat,” she wrote on Twitter. “These comments are deeply offensive and inappropriate, especially in 2019.”The reception was about the same in Linden, a struggling town of roughly 2,000 people — 59 percent white and 41 percent black — about 90 miles west of Montgomery. But it stung the community in specific ways. Residents said the editorial made their city seem a heinous place, when it is really more like a deeply flawed one.“You can still be taken aback by some of the problems we still have,” said Timothy Thurman, the superintendent of the local public school system. Its student population is almost entirely black, he said; most white families in Linden prefer to home-school their children or send them to a private school founded in 1969 at the height of the state’s integration battles.Yet almost in the same breath, Dr. Thurman, who is black, spoke of friendly relations between the races in town. “Honestly,” he said, “everybody gets along.”The editorial was also seen as further evidence of the inglorious fall of Mr. Sutton, 80, a fixture in the public life of Linden who inherited the paper from his father and was once widely hailed, along with his late wife, for exposing corruption in the local sheriff’s department.In the editorial, which he has acknowledged writing, Mr. Sutton blamed Democrats for the United States’ involvement in both world wars, the Korean War and the Vietnam War, as well as the conflicts in the Middle East. And in an interview with The Montgomery Advertiser about the editorial, he went even further, suggesting that the Klan “go up there and clean out D.C.”“We’ll get the hemp ropes out, loop them over a tall limb and hang all of them,” he told The Advertiser.Efforts to reach Mr. Sutton for comment on Tuesday by telephone or in person were not successful.The mayor of Linden, Charles Moore, received a reporter in his office early Tuesday morning. An angry woman, presumably from out of town, had just called him and asked, sardonically, when the city would be holding its next Klan meeting.Mr. Moore, who is white, said he was disgusted by Mr. Sutton’s article, but not surprised that it had been published: “Oh no, not at all.”The Democrat-Reporter earned a name far beyond Linden in the 1990s, when it ran a series of articles detailing rampant corruption in the Marengo County Sheriff’s Department, including theft and drug peddling. The sheriff at the time was popular, and the paper was flooded with threats and cancellations of ads and subscriptions.Mr. Sutton’s wife, Jean Sutton, was the managing editor in those days. But she died of breast cancer in 2003, and the mayor said that changed something. “He lost his wife, and all the credibility went with her,” he said. “She was a very good investigative reporter, and also a real sweet person.”Mr. Sutton began penning editorials that were racially insensitive and “very hurtful,” Mr. Moore said. An editorial in May 2015 stated that a local mayor had “displayed her African heritage by not enforcing civilized law” and referred repeatedly to black people as “thugs.”And during the national debate over football players kneeling in protest of police brutality, the paper published an editorial titled “Let football boys kneel.”“That’s what black folks were taught to do two hundred years ago, kneel before a white man,” it read. “Is that it? Let them kneel!”Last year, Mr. Moore said, a number of businesses downtown were so incensed by one article that they demanded that the paper remove its boxes from their property.USA Today reported in 2015 that the paper had a circulation of 3,000, but these days it is not easy to find in Linden. There is a box in front of a closed-up building on Main Street, and another in front of the newspaper’s shed-size office on a side street.At a gas station called Langley’s, they were not selling it, and a clerk there said, “I don’t know anybody who does.”Jami Huckabee, 36, a waitress who worked for the paper as a teenager, said The Democrat-Reporter was mired in financial problems even then. Mr. Sutton, she said, “is just a bitter old man” who she thought was calculatedly dropping racist bombs in an effort to attract waning interest: “This is how he sells papers now, because everybody’s boycotted him for various reasons.”The Feb. 14 issue contained eight pages, with unsigned news articles about art grant applications and a Methodist church’s Brunswick stew dinner. The page facing the editorial featured large photos of local African-American parents posing proudly with sons who had won football scholarships.A full page was given over to legal notices, a financial lifeline for many small papers. There were ads for local apartments, a local cleaners, a cafe in nearby Demopolis, and the Omaha Steaks company.A number of residents said that they never saw the paper any more, and had only heard about the editorial after seeing reports on social media. “Most people have dropped their subscriptions,” said Sarah Dailey, the librarian, who said the library does not carry copies either.Myisha Taylor, 25, a library patron, said on Tuesday that she had not heard about the editorial. But Ms. Taylor, who is black, said she was hardly surprised that such sentiments persisted in Alabama. Linden, she said, “is mostly run by people like that — all of that’s still active, it’s just undercover.”Other black residents strongly disagreed. “Living here is good, I cannot lie,” said Aleicia White, 51, a disabled former worker at a wood products company. “The people are friendly, and I live in an all-white neighborhood.”Either way, residents said there had been no big resurgence in pro-Klan sentiment in the area.Kenneth Barrineau, who heads the Heart of Marengo Chamber of Commerce, said he worried about the impact of the international bad press on a town where a job in a paper mill was often the best work to be had, and where no one had figured out how to lure back the children who go off to distant colleges.“I would say this is not a story about Linden, Alabama,” he said. “This is a story about the local newspaper.”At the Democrat-Reporter’s tiny office Tuesday, an African-American woman opened the door after a reporter knocked. She said no one could talk until Thursday, and added that she had no comment about the editorial.Mr. Sutton was easier to find in city court records, which indicated that he had gone to court Aug. 23 to fight a charge of littering and had lost the case. He was fined $432.50.Wendy Lewis, the court clerk, said that a strong wind had caught hold of advertising inserts that were stacked outside the Democrat-Reporter’s offices and had blown them around.“Oh, it was a mess,” she said. “It was all over town.”An earlier version of this article misstated the age of Goodloe Sutton, a longtime editor of The Democrat-Reporter. He is 80, not 70.Richard Fausset reported from Linden, Ala., and Niraj Chokshi from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy John BranchClemson’s freshman quarterback Trevor Lawrence arrived here as a wild card dealt into a familiar championship hand. Alabama, carrying the glow of its array of championship trophies, hoped the 19-year-old Lawrence might be rattled under pressure, from both the Crimson Tide’s pass rushers and the weight of the moment.But Lawrence, statuesque and uncommonly mature, left as a hero with barely a grass stain on his orange-and-white uniform.Using big plays, capitalizing on Alabama turnovers and riding the poise of Lawrence, Clemson beat Alabama, 44-16, in the College Football Playoff championship game at Levi’s Stadium.[How Clemson won: a drive-by-drive recap of the national championship game]It was the fourth year in a row that Alabama and Clemson had met in college football’s four-team playoff, and the third time they faced off in the championship game.Clemson (15-0) has now won two of those three games, adding to the national title it won at the end of the 2016 season. The Tigers, under Coach Dabo Swinney, seem to be the only program able to disrupt Alabama’s dynasty, and have started building their own along the way.Alabama still has five national championships since 2009, but the last three seasons have included two championship-game losses to Clemson.“There’s so many great coaches that are so deserving of a moment like this that never get the chance to experience it,” Swinney said in an on-field interview with ESPN after the game, “and to get to do it once and now to get to do it again — it’s a blessing.”Alabama Coach Nick Saban was gracious in defeat, especially impressed with Lawrence and Clemson’s receivers, but turned his analysis inward.“If you look at the stats of the game, the yards and all that are fairly equal,” he said. “But the score — because of turnovers, not finishing drives in the red zone, not getting off the field on third down, giving up explosive plays — the score doesn’t indicate anything like that.”Lawrence and Clemson were successful on 10 of 15 third downs, gaining 255 yards on those conversions.With so much talent and experience on both squads — much of it destined for the N.F.L. — the rosters were expected to largely cancel each other out. The outcome, not surprisingly, rested largely on the play of the two quarterbacks.Lawrence was outstanding, completing 20 of 32 passes for 347 yards, with three touchdowns and no interceptions.Alabama’s Tua Tagovailoa, the Heisman Trophy runner-up and a postseason hero of yesteryear, had just four interceptions in 321 pass attempts this season entering Monday’s game. But by halftime, he had thrown two picks that proved pivotal.His first, on the team’s third play, was returned for a touchdown by A.J. Terrell. The second started a Clemson touchdown drive that gave the Tigers a double-digit lead that they never relinquished.Clemson held a 31-16 halftime lead, knowing full well that Alabama had overcome those kinds of deficits in past playoff games. But the Crimson Tide could not convert yards into points or force Lawrence into any game-changing mistakes.Alabama put its defensive focus on slowing Clemson’s rushing attack, which often hammered opponents into submission this season while averaging 6.8 yards per rush, highest in the nation.The Alabama defense held Clemson to 27 yards on 10 rushes in the first half. It would have been a winning strategy if Lawrence — and his offensive line — had not played so well. “I’m just proud of how we handled everything,” Lawrence said. “And I’m really thankful for our O-line. Zero sacks tonight.”Facing a third-and-8 early in the third quarter, Lawrence finally was under pressure when he flung the ball toward receiver Justyn Ross — wide open because cornerback Saivion Smith had fallen to the grass with an injury.Ross caught the ball and ran untouched for a 74-yard touchdown, capping a run of 23 unanswered Clemson points that lifted the Tigers to a 37-16 lead. Smith was taken away on a cart as the Clemson sideline hummed in anticipation of victory.Historically, college football is a place of regular-season rivalries, not postseason ones. Teams do not play one another regularly in the postseason — too many schools, too many conferences, too many bowl affiliations. And these times seem an unlikely era for such a dynamic to emerge, now that there are 130 top-level programs in the Football Bowl Subdivision.All that makes it the more remarkable that these two teams keep meeting in championship games, as if they are the Warriors and Cavaliers of the N.B.A.The first, a 45-40 Alabama victory in January 2016, was exhilarating, the teams combining for 40 fourth-quarter points. An unexpected and successful onside kick and a 95-yard kickoff return were the big plays for Alabama’s comeback victory.Clemson and quarterback Deshaun Watson avenged the result a year later, with Watson throwing a 2-yard touchdown to Hunter Renfrow with 1 second left to give the Tigers a 35-31 victory.The teams met in the semifinal game last year, with No. 4 Alabama dominating No. 1 Clemson, 24-6. The Crimson Tide beat Georgia, in overtime, in the championship game. The hero there was Tagovailoa, then a freshman backup quarterback. He came into the game with Alabama trailing 13-0 at the beginning of the second half and threw three touchdowns, including the game-winner in overtime.Alabama arrived this year as a slight favorite, though few expected any sort of romp. Alabama was the first team since Yale in 1900 to beat every team by at least 20 points during the regular season, but Clemson has built itself into a deep shadow of Alabama’s program, following closely behind in college football’s spotlight.This might be the moment that Clemson fully emerged from it.The game opened as if the fast-forward button had gotten stuck. That was a twist from their previous championship meetings, which built slowly and ended with a flurry of points, like the finale of a fireworks display.This time, they combined for three touchdowns in the first four and a half minutes, and four touchdowns in the first 9 minutes. Barely 3 minutes into the second quarter, the teams had combined for 37 points. The entire game felt like a highlight reel.Clemson jumped out first, in the game’s second minute, when Terrell intercepted Tagovailoa’s short pass intended for Jerry Jeudy and returned it 44 yards for a touchdown. It was just the fifth interception of the season for Tagovailoa, and Terrell carried it untouched toward a sea of pleasantly surprised, orange-clad Clemson fans behind the end zone.Tagovailoa made up for his mistake in a hurry. His next pass, on the next drive, found Jeudy beyond the Clemson defense, a 62-yard touchdown connection that elevated the crimson-wearing fans in the opposing end zone.On the next drive, Lawrence threw a perfect arc on a 62-yard gain to Tee Higgins, then Travis Etienne carried around the left end for a 17-yard touchdown run — his first of three on Monday. Clemson had a 14-7 lead with 10:35 left in the first quarter. Anyone daring to turn away, or even blinking too lethargically, risked the possibility of missing the next big play.The pace eventually slowed, even if the scoreboard was just warming up. Alabama needed 10 plays to go 75 yards for the next touchdown. A missed extra point left Clemson ahead, 14-13.Following a Clemson punt, the first of just five in the game, Alabama moved downfield in 11 plays, with a dizzying array of quick passes and misdirection runs. Clemson’s defense stiffened near the goal line, suddenly finding its balance, and held the Crimson Tide to a field goal.It felt like a small victory for Clemson. It was a key to the national championship.The moment of momentum shifted to Clemson’s offense, which marched downfield, ending with Etienne’s 1-yard touchdown run. The Tigers had a 21-16 lead, and when they converted Tagovailoa’s second interception into a touchdown drive, they had a double-digit cushion.There is rarely a time to get comfortable against Alabama. But Clemson will have at least a year. The next championship game is scheduled for Jan. 13, 2020, in New Orleans.John Branch is a sports reporter. He won the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for feature writing for “Snow Fall,” a story about a deadly avalanche in Washington State, and was also a finalist for the prize in 2012.  @JohnBranchNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe speed and power of the Rams’ wrecking-ball lineman show that size isn’t everything in the N.F.L.By Ben ShpigelATLANTA — The Rams selected defensive tackle Aaron Donald with their second first-round pick in 2014, No. 13 over all, which means that 11 other teams, after assembling draft boards and consulting scouts and analyzing a trilogy’s worth of film of his demolishing offensive linemen, decided against taking a player whose dominance has since redefined his position.“I think,” said Mike Waufle, the Rams’ defensive line coach at the time, “people were scared of his size.”Donald is 6-foot-1 and, coming out of the University of Pittsburgh, was listed at 285 pounds. That is enormous in human terms, but smallish for a defensive tackle, whose function in a 3-4 defense is to blot out the sun.Not everyone with the Rams coveted Donald, but Waufle was undeterred. He had long prized speed over size, and from the start, he viewed Donald as an outlier, grading him as the best prospect he had seen since 1998, his first season coaching in the N.F.L. Donald generated so much power that he reminded Waufle of the Russian boxer Ivan Drago in “Rocky IV,” who punched a computerized meter with such force that Drago’s manager remarked, “Whatever he hits, he destroys.”In his first season, Donald was selected as the top defensive rookie. Last season, he was defensive player of the year. After registering 20.5 sacks this season, the most ever by a defensive tackle, Donald will almost certainly repeat.The Rams’ ascent to a Super Bowl berth against the New England Patriots on Sunday from 4-12 buffoonery in 2016 reflects a certain harmonic convergence — the confluence of foresight, audacity and good fortune, with Donald embodying it all.Coach Sean McVay, a brilliant communicator whose football acumen pushed the Rams to the forefront of the league’s offensive frenzy, has already spawned a coaching tree, and the team has traded precious draft picks to acquire volatile personalities who have meshed in a cohesive locker room. But before all that, the Rams had the conviction to draft Donald. In 2014, he was an excellent defender. In 2019, he is the avatar for defensive disruption.With N.F.L. teams eschewing downfield passes for underneath routes, and Patriots quarterback Tom Brady averaging a mere 2.18 seconds per postseason throw in the pocket, according to Pro Football Focus, interior pressure is ever more critical. And no one plows into the backfield faster than Donald, a player New England Coach Bill Belichick called “pretty much unblockable.”“If he keeps this up,” the Hall of Fame defensive tackle John Randle said, “he can change the game almost like a Lawrence Taylor.”Randle transformed the position, too, playing at 6-1 and 285 pounds, but in a different era, when teams prioritized space-choking interior tackles to stop the run and tended to harass quarterbacks from the outside. Of the 54 instances in which a player had at least 16.5 sacks in a season since the statistic was first tracked in 1982, 50 came from defenders who didn’t play tackle, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.Randle never quite reached that total, topping out at 15.5. But contemporaries like La’Roi Glover and Warren Sapp did, and Randle viewed them, and himself, as misfits, fueled by the perception that they weren’t fast enough to play linebacker, big enough to play offensive line or nimble enough to play running back.Across 14 seasons with Minnesota and Seattle, Randle amassed the most sacks by a defensive tackle in N.F.L. history — 137.5 — by destroying quarterbacks and game plans much as Donald does now, just with less time to get to the quarterback. Donald had a league-leading 106 pressures, according to Pro Football Focus. The next closest player, Fletcher Cox of Philadelphia, had 95.“When you get that interior pressure, they can’t run the sweep, the center can’t pull,” Randle said. “When you’re in the inside, you may not get there, but you’re in the quarterback’s face, and he can’t see because the pressure’s there. He sees you, and he’s more conscious of you. You’re right there in front of him.”When watching Donald, Randle notices how his feet, hands and eyes work in concert, with a first step so quick that it can be mistaken for reflex. Donald’s arms allow him to get leverage on taller linemen — plural, considering the double teams he faces — beneath their pads, taking away their strength.“Some guys at that position are top-heavy with skinny little legs, or are big down below but have nothing up top,” Dewayne Brown, who has helped train Donald since 2009 in their native Pittsburgh, said in a telephone interview. “He’s built like a block, totally proportional.”A secret: Donald may be listed at 285 pounds, but, he said Tuesday, he has been playing at 270, maybe 265. (The Rams’ other defensive tackle, Ndamukong Suh, is listed at 6-4 and 307 pounds.) Over texts, Waufle calls Donald a male model and tells him he’s pretty. Donald’s father, Archie, asked Brown to remind his son that he’s not a bodybuilder. In a photo he posted to his Instagram story Monday, a shirtless Donald is shown flexing, muscles bulging, his abdominal muscles clearly defined. Celery has more fat than he does.“He’s got, like, an eight-pack,” Rams defensive tackle Michael Brockers said.In the off-season, Brown helps Donald refine his speed and agility with 45-minute workouts laden with core exercises and resistance training, like the drill he performs wearing lateral resistors on his ankles. As someone drops a tennis ball eight yards away, Donald must sprint to grab it before it bounces a second time. Go on, try it.To increase his strength, Donald works with Dave Andrews, the strength and conditioning coach at Pitt, who called him “a genetic mutant” and “a ball of dynamite.” Andrews challenges him with exercises in which he provides Donald with resistance throughout the entire movement to isolate a particular muscle group.“It’s no different than when they’re in hand-to-hand combat on the field, and they’re manually trying to resist what he’s doing,” Andrews said. “Most likely, it takes two, maybe three guys, to slow Aaron down. You can imagine what it’s like in the weight room. Like, good luck. I walk out in a full sweat.”Donald has long been strong and thick; as an adolescent, he would wake before dawn to lift weights with his father. But Donald was “real chunky,” Brown said, when he first encountered him as a junior at Penn Hills High School.That season, Greg Gattuso, then the defensive line coach at Pitt, attended a Penn Hills game to scout one of Donald’s teammates. He had heard of Donald but had never watched him. Before leaving, Gattuso offered him a scholarship.With each successive season at Pitt, Donald had more tackles for loss. His senior year, nearly half of his 59 tackles — 28.5 — came behind the line of scrimmage. At the N.F.L. scouting combine, Donald ran the 40-yard dash in 4.68 seconds, faster that year than Raiders quarterback Derek Carr (6-2, 214), Patriots linebacker Kyle Van Noy (6-3, 243) and Cowboys defensive end DeMarcus Lawrence (6-3, 251). His 10-yard split, which gauges short-area quickness, was a solid 1.65 seconds.From afar, Waufle yearned. As defensive line coach for the Giants, he replaced interior linemen with speedier ends to overwhelm Brady and unbeaten New England in Super Bowl XLII. He said he studied more game tape of Randle than Randle himself.Waufle wanted a Randle of his own.On draft night, Waufle was working on a project in his office when, around the eighth pick or so, he glanced at the television and noticed Donald was still available. He cycled through scenarios in his head.He thought Detroit, picking 10th, would grab him. He thought the Giants, picking 12th, would, too. When the Rams were on the clock, he sneaked into the draft room, hoping for good news. When he got it, he nearly yelped inside.The next time he saw Donald, told him something he had never said to another player: Don’t listen to anything I say.“We’ll get you lined up, and you just go, man — you just go,” Waufle said, relaying their conversation. “And he did. He tore the league up.”Waufle left the Rams when McVay was hired, after the 2016 season, but his successor, Bill Johnson, marvels daily at Donald.“What makes him different is no different than what makes a racehorse so great,” Johnson said. “They’re just sort of made to be, I guess. I don’t know. If I knew, I’d be cloning it.”Donald’s trajectory might have made teams reassess their evaluations of him. It might have even made them more likely to consider undersized defensive tackles in the future — imitation and flattery, and all that. But there is only one Aaron Donald, and to the dismay of every other team, but most of all New England this week, he plays for the Rams.Ben Shpigel is a sports reporter and has covered the N.F.L. and the New York Jets since 2011. He has also covered the New York Yankees and, before that, the Mets. He previously worked for The Dallas Morning News.  @benshpigel AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byChiefs 31, Colts 13By Ben ShpigelKANSAS CITY, Mo. — The stories passed down about the Kansas City Chiefs’ playoff malfunctions might sound apocryphal, as if embellished over a game of telephone, but they’re not. Really.The fans who jammed Arrowhead Stadium on Saturday can recite detail after grisly detail. So can those who roamed Kansas City’s sideline: Many of them added to the misery last year, two years ago, three years ago, five.One player changed the calculus. His ascension terminated an era of despair. His quarterbacking brilliance inoculated the fan base. In his grand playoff unveiling, Patrick Lavon Mahomes II purged a quarter-century of Arrowhead futility.After every first down, every score, every defensive stop, fans in the upper deck flung snowballs in glee. They kept coming, much like the top-seeded Chiefs, who blitzed their postseason nemesis, the Indianapolis Colts, 31-13, and advanced to host the A.F.C. Championship next Sunday against the Los Angeles Chargers or the New England Patriots.The conference champion receives a trophy named for Lamar Hunt, the founder and original owner of the Chiefs, who have played for the award just once since 1970 (when they won their only Super Bowl title). That was in 1994, the last time, incidentally, that Kansas City won a home playoff game. At the beginning of every season, Hunt’s son Clark, a team co-owner, tells players how important it is to win that trophy.“We’ve now put ourselves in a position to do it,” Hunt said. “I’m probably going to think about it a lot this week.”As he stood in the Chiefs’ locker room Saturday night, Hunt thought a lot, too, about Mahomes, who in his first season as a full-time starter became the only quarterback other than Peyton Manning to throw for 50 touchdowns and 5,000 yards in a regular season.Three other quarterbacks made their playoff debuts last week, and all three lost. Mahomes completed 27 of 41 passes for 278 yards without committing a turnover and guided scoring drives on four of Kansas City’s five first-half possessions. When Darrel Williams plowed into the end zone for the final touchdown, with 2 minutes 26 seconds left, Mahomes peeled away from the crowd and windmilled his fist, aware in that moment of what he — what all of the Chiefs — had accomplished.And so now, after 47 years, this sentence can be written: The Chiefs, finally, have more playoff victories at Arrowhead than the Colts. It’s O.K. to read that again, a third time even.“They don’t know about old luck, or Andrew Luck or bad luck against the Colts,” punter Dustin Colquitt, the team’s longest-tenured player, said of Mahomes and first-year Chiefs like Sammy Watkins (six catches, 62 yards) or Damien Williams (25 rushes, 129 yards). “So why not us?”The Chiefs had lost their last six home playoff games, and 10 of 11 over all, often in unspeakable fashion. Once, they did not allow a touchdown. Last year, they blew an 18-point halftime advantage. The worst defeat — and that distinction, mind you, is debatable — came five years ago, when they led by 28 points in the third quarter and, yes, lost.To the Colts.All of Kansas City’s anguish connected with Indianapolis — four straight playoff losses since 1996 — preceded Mahomes, who seems impervious to it all.“I think we all almost expect it every week now,” Hunt said of Mahomes’s command. “I mentioned earlier in the year that the first couple of games we thought: ‘O.K., is this an outlier? Is this something that’s going to last?’ But he literally has done it every week.”The Chiefs scored on their first possession. And their second. And their third. And, after a brief break, their fifth. The points accumulated like the snow that blanketed the region overnight and deep into Saturday.The slicker the surface, the wackier the conditions, the more comfortable Mahomes, all of 23, seems. About 45 minutes before kickoff, he did not run out of the tunnel so much as he strutted, skipping toward the 35-yard line, where he began warming up, his passes accurate, his footing true.In the game, Mahomes extended plays, sidestepped rushes, flipped passes across his body — connecting with Travis Kelce (seven catches, 108 yards), Tyreek Hill (eight catches, 72 yards), with Damien Williams (five catches, 25 yards).It perplexed the Colts, who could not cover, tackle or feel remotely positive about anything until 5:56 before halftime, when Najee Goode blocked a punt that Zach Pascal recovered in the end zone for a touchdown.Any chance Indianapolis had of drawing closer faded when a diving Mahomes crashed past an end zone pylon from 4 yards out, extending the Chiefs’ lead to 24-7. Then the Colts’ Adam Vinatieri — whose kick in the snow 17 years ago catalyzed the New England dynasty — clanged a 23-yard field-goal attempt off the left upright.Of course, now he misses in the snow, muttered Raiders fans everywhere. Vinatieri later missed an extra point, leaving the Colts 11 points behind, and all hope dissolved.The Chiefs’ defense, suspect all season, sacked Andrew Luck three times and held Marlon Mack, who last week blasted the Houston Texans for a franchise-record 148 rushing yards, to all of 46.“We played checkers,” Colts tight end Eric Ebron said. “They played chess.”Before Luck completed a pass, Kansas City led by 17-0, on touchdown runs by Damien Williams and, on a dazzling reverse, Hill. With misdirection, precision and, at times, brute force, the Chiefs asserted themselves in a way the Colts had not encountered: Not once during a three-month surge from 1-5 to 10-6 did Indianapolis face a top-five offense.The Chiefs are a top-one offense. Mahomes is a top-one quarterback. The chants of “M.V.P.” reverberated loud and long. So many times over the years, Kansas City confronted a quarterback deficit in the playoffs. John Elway and Manning, Tom Brady and Ben Roethlisberger — all foiled the Chiefs.Already they have advanced deeper than any predecessor since Joe Montana helmed the team 25 years ago. They know how fleeting this moment can be, and if they win next Sunday, surpassing the teams of Montana and Trent Green and Alex Smith and all the others, Mahomes will add to his growing legend — to stories that delighted fans will pass down, stories that may seem apocryphal, but are not.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump declared on Friday that he would use emergency powers to fund the construction of a border wall, sidestepping Congress. The announcement met with immediate blowback: Sixteen states are suing, and on late-night TV on Monday, various hosts attacked the president for it.Stephen Colbert and Seth Meyers pointed out that Trump had said on Friday that he “didn’t need to do this,” but was declaring the emergency in order to build the wall “much faster” — a statement that seemed to contradict the very definition of an emergency.“You didn’t need to do this? Then it’s not an emergency! That’s the exact opposite of an emergency. That’s a choice. That’s like saying, ‘I’m having emergency surgery to get butt implants. I didn’t need to do this, but I hate doing squats.” — SETH MEYERS“You don’t say that out loud! [Impersonating Trump] ‘Hello, 911? I would like to call an Uber, but that would take too long. Please, send an ambulance. I want to go to the movies. No, no, no — of course I’m dying. I am dying to see ‘The Lego Movie 2.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTMeyers pointed out that building a wall along a nearly 2,000-mile border didn’t seem like an emergency solution.“Isn’t building a wall kind of a long-term way to approach a supposed ‘emergency’? That’s like trying to save a drowning man by drinking the lake.” — SETH MEYERSBoth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon had some fun with the news that a woman had delivered a baby during a JetBlue flight.“The other day, a woman gave birth to a baby boy on a JetBlue flight. It was stressful, but now JetBlue can finally say they had an early arrival.” — JIMMY FALLON“A woman gave birth aboard a JetBlue flight to Florida this weekend. Said the man next to her: ‘Fine! Take the armrest!’” — SETH MEYERS“Luxury department store Barney’s partnered with a cannabis company to open a high-end boutique in Beverly Hills, where customers can buy accessories such as glass bongs and cannabis-infused candles. You know, for when you want to be chill about how rich you are.” — SETH MEYERS“A woman in England was searching a farm with a metal detector when she found what she thought was a foil-wrapped chocolate coin — only to find out later that it’s a 1,500-year-old solid gold pendant worth a fortune. Yeah, unbelievable: to get that close to finding chocolate only to be disappointed!” — JAMES CORDEN“Happy Presidents’ Day. Yeah, I’ll be honest, this is another American holiday I don’t quite understand. Yeah, you pull a president out of the ground and then if it sees its shadow, there’s six more weeks of democracy? Do I have it right?” — TREVOR NOAHJimmy Fallon persuaded Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry to drop a few wacky phrases into his interviews during the NBA’s All-Star weekend. He really pulled it off. (He also pulled off a mind-boggling alley-oop in the All-Star Game itself. See it all below.)Jonathan Batiste, the “Late Show” bandleader, created greeting cards celebrating Black History Month and Valentine’s Day at the same time. A highlight: the one that says, “My milkshake brings all W.E.B. Du Bois to the yard.”Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts recently announced her plans to seek the Democratic presidential nomination. She’s known as a policy wonk, but she’ll probably have a slightly less heavy-duty conversation when she appears with James Corden on “The Late Late Show” on Tuesday.In this interview with our pop critic, the rapper 21 Savage opens up about his life as an undocumented immigrant, and his detention at the hands of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaFIFA President Gianni Infantino’s plans to reorder world soccer are being stymied by a familiar foe: Europe.Since proposing several major changes to the sport’s calendar last spring, Infantino has spent months traveling the world hosting minisummits with the leaders of FIFA’s 211 member federations. His goal is to win support for a proposal to introduce two new tournaments — an expanded World Cup for clubs and a new league for national teams — that would be underwritten by a $25 billion offer from a group led by the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank.The listening exercise follows repeated failures by Infantino to force the proposals through FIFA’s governing council, but if they are approved they would represent the biggest changes to soccer in a generation, and their adoption — and the multibillion-dollar cash infusion to FIFA — would provide Infantino with a signature success ahead of his bid to secure a second term as FIFA president later this year.Each of the meetings on Infantino’s tour, including the most recent one held in Marrakesh, Morocco, has included about 50 federation leaders from across soccer’s six regional confederations. At the end of each session, the federation representatives are handed electronic tablets and asked to select their preferred options for the new tournaments.Infantino’s problem is that European officials attending the meetings have stubbornly refused to offer any opinions. Instead, they have told Infantino and his team that the feelings of Aleksander Ceferin, the president of the European governing body, UEFA, and his governing council represent their views.Some of the Europeans balked because the list of options for the Club World Cup did not include the option of not holding the tournament, which is often an annoyance for the European champion who attends, at all. On FIFA’s tablets, voters are asked to pick from only three choices: a tournament with 16, 24 or 32 teams.Ceferin, under pressure from clubs and federations in Europe, has clashed repeatedly with Infantino over the proposed changes both to the Club World Cup and to the broader global soccer calendar, with Ceferin most frustrated by new initiatives that could challenge the hegemony of existing club tournaments like UEFA’s Champions League and add to the workload of players.“I cannot accept that some people who are blinded by the pursuit of profit are considering to sell the soul of football tournaments to nebulous private funds,” Ceferin said in a speech last May. “Money does not rule — and the European sports model must be respected. Football is not for sale. I will not let anyone sacrifice its structures on the altar of a highly cynical and ruthless mercantilism.”Infantino first presented details of a plan for an expanded Club World Cup at a FIFA Council meeting in Bogotá, Colombia, last March. Citing a nondisclosure agreement, he refused to identify the financial backers of the proposal, which are believed to include not only SoftBank but also financing from the Middle East, which Infantino eventually denied were directly linked to sovereign wealth funds. (Saudi Arabia remains the biggest individual backer over Softbank’s Vision Fund, the biggest private-equity fund ever raised.) Instead, Infantino pressed the council to let him close the deal on his own.European leaders at the meeting balked, and Ceferin and Infantino have not held a meeting since the Colombia summit. In October, European officials threatened to walk out of the last meeting when Infantino suggested he planned to call another vote.The vote did not take place; instead, FIFA set up a task force involving representatives from the six confederations and asked it to produce an acceptable plan before a scheduled FIFA Council meeting in March in Miami.At the last summit, in Morocco, Infantino expressed frustration to the officials who declined to take part in the vote for his plans, according to multiple people present at the meeting.“As part of this discussion, people are asked to give their feedback on a series of proposals and, as in any democratic consultation process, every member can express its opinion freely,” FIFA said in a statement. “The feedback received will be fed back to the Council together with the results of the other consultation platforms.”FIFA’s task force for the two tournaments will hold its next meeting on Feb. 21 in Rio de Janeiro. As tensions grow, however, there is a chance that European executives will not attend, according to a person familiar with the continental leaders’ plans.UEFA declined to comment. The organization has been seeking the support of European clubs and leagues to oppose Infantino’s proposals. At the last two meetings, Ceferin has arrived armed with signed letters of opposition from The European Club Association, a union of the continent’s top clubs, and a separate group representing the continent’s domestic leagues.The proposals to expand the Club World Cup and to create a new global Nations League similar to the recently created UEFA version largely have the backing of officials from South America, Africa and Asia — likely enough to win a vote should Infantino choose to take one at the Miami meeting. Any such move would exacerbate the growing rift with Europe, however, and potentially lead to a larger crisis if top clubs and leading nations from UEFA refuse to participate in the new FIFA-controlled tournaments.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNDavid Steinberg roots around and comes up with a tough Saturday puzzle.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  Lo, and behold this cute little snowflake grid from David Steinberg. The longest entries are but seven letters, and I feel I shall make short work of it. Said I before I’d dug in at all, let alone too deep. In truth, this was a pretty slow solve for me, which is typical when tackling Mr. Steinberg’s creations. I'll say I chose to work my way around the center cross, but that’s mainly because I made some early headway in the southwest corner and passively followed it east, to a delightful little menagerie. Then I had to backtrack and head northwest again because the northeast corner was tough as nails, and after a couple of missteps, everything up there fell in place.One of the very last entries I got was the eye-twitch inducer du jour, I guess, SCHMUCK. I had a Yiddish-speaking grandma and I remember hearing schmendrick, schlemiel and schlamozzle, but I think SCHMUCK was verboten. This clue made me think of a recent reference, though, and chuckle a bit — it was when Harrison Ford almost caused some massive air collision while landing his little plane.There are differing opinions, by people who know (or are interested in) the etymology of SCHMUCK, of its appropriateness for ordinary use. It has made just two appearances in the puzzle already, once in 2005 (plural, clued as “Jerks”), and once in 1975 (plural again, “Oafs”). (By the way, I got all stressed out about IT'S A ME MARIO last weekend for much the same reasons. My oft-mentioned cruciverbal colleague referred this matter to her husband, who is both Italian and a gamer, and although it’s a week late and a lira short I could not resist reporting to you his reaction, which was, “It’s a-ffensive!”)1A: First of all, football can be soccer, lest we sports anti-fans forget. Second of all, if you’re staring at your grid wondering what begins with A-C-M, let alone a sports team, you’re fine. Mr. Steinberg is referring to AC MILAN, an early Italian football club; there are much older teams, though, and football had already become an Olympic sport, in 1896.18A: I think my Waterloo in this quadrant was caused by entering “spinoff” here, bizarrely and confidently, since I’d heard of “The Good Wife,” a television show, and vaguely heard there were more shows based on it. A lot of you probably thought of PARABLE as a gimme. I also had “new to” instead of NEW AT, which made a letter string of S-R-T-N in 8D, which was befuddling.33A: Where else do we get to delve our academic memories for nuggets like this? Hans Christian OERSTED was the physicist who, in the 1820s, discovered a relationship between electrical currents and magnetism. He was also famously one of the first scientists to extract aluminum, if you were remembering the name for some other reason.59A, and friends: “Enthusiastic greeting” is a good tricky clue for what could be sort of alarming to those conscious of personal space — I was thinking “tail wag,” but it’s BEAR HUG. BEAR HUG runs over CAT POSE, which alternates with cow pose for a good back stretch you should go do every so often (in private, if you’re self-conscious at all, really). Crossing with ROAD HOG (which could also have been “ball hog” as clued — both are funny) was clever as a fox, Mr. Steinberg.1D: This entry was easy to find on crosses, but it’s a little mysterious. Are ACCENTS highlights or is this a play on a stereotypical snobby French coiffeur?12D: Something about this corner in the aggregate made it hard but fun, with roughly four of seven down clues from the top being puns; this one, “Place to get wired,” or USB PORT, was particularly good.24D: This could have also been clued, universally, as “dogs like cats’, but not vice versa,” because there has never been a dog that doesn’t joyously devour cat KIBBLES, but cats think that dog food is junk. Every cat and dog on Earth was polled on this question and the results were unanimous.This themeless dates back to March 2016. I started in the upper left with the Scrabbly NOXZEMA/CINEMAX crossing, though my favorite corner is actually the lower right. Even though the short crossings aren’t as smooth, I really like the trio of animal entries (ROAD HOG, BEAR HUG, and CAT POSE). SCHMUCK is a bit edgy for my current taste, but I’ll always have a soft spot for Yiddish and other words that relate to Jewish culture. I debuted HAMANTASCHEN in a Newsday Saturday Stumper a few years ago, and lately I’ve been trying to work RUGELACH into a themeless grid.In other news, I was recently named editor of the Universal Crossword and Universal Sunday Crossword! The former appears daily in The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, and numerous other domestic and international newspapers. If you’re looking for a cooldown after solving my Saturday puzzle, you won’t want to miss today’s offering from the amazing Zhouqin Burnikel (available after midnight Central time).Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelATLANTA — Before playing their most critical 30 minutes of the season, the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots will spend at least 30 minutes preparing for them.Halftime at the Super Bowl lasts more than twice as long as the standard 13-minute N.F.L. intermission, giving teams more time to strategize and rest but also to stay limber and energized as they rehydrate, regroup and reset for one final surge.A Super Bowl halftime unfurls like a slow drip. Players sit at their stools for a few minutes. They can breathe, and they can think, mindful of preserving energy without cooling down. Coaches convene for several minutes compiling a checklist. Assistants communicate corrections and tactical adjustments. Coordinators gather units at the ends of the room. Trainers wield foam rollers to smooth tight muscles. Head coaches emphasize points. Officials remind teams when 10 minutes remain, then five, then two.[Read about Sean McVay’s rise to lead the Rams to the Super Bowl.]A normal halftime unfolds as if caffeinated. Players retape their joints, adjust their pads and change their undershirts and shoes. They down bananas and orange slices, guzzle water and energy drinks and huddle with coaches, who, after hustling down elevators from their upstairs perches, make a small tweak or two and then, boom, off they go again. As if spectators and not participants, they debate whether they have enough time to use the restroom.“You’re out the door almost as fast as you come in,” said Matt Light, an offensive tackle who played in five Super Bowls for New England.Former Patriots players said Bill Belichick, who is set to coach in his ninth Super Bowl with New England, describes the logistics of halftime ahead of the game in as much detail as he would a game plan. The clock starts within 60 to 90 seconds of the team leaving the field. The halftime show, which begins after nine minutes, lasts about 13 and a half minutes. About seven minutes before kickoff, players begin filtering out to stretch and warm up.“There’s definitely never a time where we’re just sitting there wondering what’s going on,” Patriots receiver Chris Hogan said.Belichick views the two halves of a Super Bowl almost like a doubleheader, with a gap between games for players to recuperate mentally and physically, according to players and coaches who have been through this with him. (By now there are a lot of them.) He reminds the players to hydrate and keep their emotions in check, sharing cautionary tales.The pregame festivities ahead of the Super Bowl are far longer than usual, too, and before the unbeaten 2007 Patriots lost to the Giants in Super Bowl XLII, Belichick told players how receiver Troy Brown once expended so much energy before one of their championships that he was winded by kickoff.A member of that team, receiver Donté Stallworth, had a history of muscle injuries, and he thought it would be warm inside the stadium in Arizona. Hesitant to receive fluids intravenously — “I really hate needles,” he said — he suppressed his fear after Randy Moss, in colorful language, reminded him that he’d be playing in the Super Bowl. The infusion helped to keep his muscles loose and pliant before the game, and then at halftime he placed heat packs under his legs to warm his hamstrings.Some teams simulate the extended halftime by taking 30-minute breaks in practice. It worked for the Eagles last year. It didn’t for the Patriots seven years ago.“I don’t think you perfect it,” said Ivan Fears, New England’s running backs coach since 2002. “I think you have an idea of how to handle it because we’ve been there a few times.”In each of their two Super Bowl victories against New England, the Giants followed the same comprehensive blueprint, the notes for which Jerry Palmieri, the team’s strength and conditioning coach at the time, has kept. Upon returning to the locker room, he said, players had but one responsibility.“Just chill,” Palmieri said in a telephone interview. “We didn’t come back to them, as coaches, until 13 minutes remained.”Josh McDaniels, the Patriots’ offensive coordinator, cautioned against overthinking as coaches. Just because there’s more time, he said, doesn’t mean they need to use it all.The Rams, in their first Super Bowl under Coach Sean McVay, chose to run special-teams periods at specific junctures of practice so their offensive and defensive units could rest. John Fassel, the Rams’ special-teams coach, said he has told the players on the coverage team to warm up their hamstrings early if they wind up kicking off in the second half.Given the Rams’ penchant for trickery, it’s possible they will mimic one of the more famous gambits in Super Bowl history, when New Orleans entered halftime trailing Indianapolis, 10-6, with the Colts, guided by Peyton Manning, slated to receive the second-half kickoff. Aaron Kromer, who served on the Saints’ staff that year and now coordinates the Rams’ running game, said Thursday that the team knew it had to steal a possession to defeat Manning.And so, early in the break, Coach Sean Payton informed kicker Thomas Morstead that instead of booting the ball deep, he’d squib an onside kick. Morstead told reporters afterward that he was terrified, but New Orleans recovered, scored a touchdown on that drive and eventually won.Reggie Wayne, a receiver on that Colts team and now an analyst for NFL Network, said he had been antsy during that halftime, knowing his team had the momentum.“We were saying to each other, you know, in the locker room, if we go down and score on this drive, we’ll kill ’em, we can bury them, you know what I mean?” he said. “Then they came out with the onside kick. So maybe we needed more time.”The additional time did help the Patriots, trailing the Atlanta Falcons by 18 points two years ago, in a specific way: They could refocus. From speaking with players, Matt Chatham, a three-time Super Bowl winner with New England who is now an analyst for NESN, said he expected to hear that tables were overturned, voices were raised and significant changes made. Instead, he said, he heard the opposite. There was urgency, but there was no rush.“We just went out and played as bad as we possibly could,” said Hogan, relaying Belichick’s message. “Let’s play better and see where it puts us.”New England’s defense coalesced as Tom Brady dissected man-to-man coverage. Atlanta, exhausted, collapsed. The Patriots scored the final 31 points and won in overtime. They could all agree, it was worth the wait.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigelNaila-Jean Meyers contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiThe comedian Amanda Seales dissects sexuality and race in a new special on HBO. And Willie Nelson takes the stage on “Austin City Limits.”AMANDA SEALES: I BE KNOWIN’ (2019) 10 p.m. on HBO; stream on HBO Go or HBO Now. In her first hourlong stand-up special, the comedian Amanda Seales (“Insecure,” “black-ish”) breaks down why catcalling is the opposite of complimenting and explains what differentiates a “Hannah” (a person who happens to be white) from a “Becky” (a white person). Seales hosts a weekly podcast called “Small Doses” and is touring with “Smart Funny & Black,” a game show she created that tests contestants’ knowledge of black culture and history.SLENDER MAN STABBING: THE UNTOLD STORY (2019) 8 p.m. on Reelz. In 2014, Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier, both 12, took their friend Payton Leutner into the Wisconsin woods and stabbed her 19 times. They said they did it to appease Slender Man, a shadowy, mythical character that has become a legend since taking shape in an online forum nearly a decade ago. (Leutner managed to crawl away and eventually recovered. Geyser, who wielded the knife, pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide and was sentenced to 40 years in a psychiatric hospital.) This new documentary special charts the events leading up to the crime through interviews with detectives, lawyers and relatives of the teenagers. The case also receives the documentary treatment in the 2016 HBO film “Beware the Slenderman.” (For those more interested in a fictional version, the 2018 horror flick “Slender Man” is available for rental on Amazon, Google Play or YouTube.)KNIGHT SQUAD 9 p.m. on Nickelodeon. The knights in training Arc (Owen Joyner) and Ciara (Daniella Perkins) rush to save the day in this Season 2 finale after hearing that Ryker (Geno Segers) nearly has his hands on the Armor of Astoria. Sydney Park, of “The Walking Dead” and “Spirit Riding Free,” guest stars.AUSTIN CITY LIMITS 11 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Willie Nelson performs songs off his Grammy-nominated album “My Way,” a collection of standards from the Great American Songbook that serves as a tribute to his friend Frank Sinatra.JERRY MAGUIRE (1996) stream on Amazon and Hulu; rent on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Stream this romantic comedy by Cameron Crowe before it leaves Amazon Prime Video and Hulu at the end of the month. Tom Cruise stars as the memorable title character, a big-time sports agent who realizes he no longer enjoys the corporate detachment that comes with the job. That epiphany gets him fired, so he starts his own agency with the help of Dorothy (Renée Zellweger), a former co-worker, and manages to cling to one client, Rod (Cuba Gooding Jr. in a flamboyant, Oscar-winning performance), a football player who is at once admirable and unbearable (“Show me the money!”).An earlier version of this article reversed the parentheticals about Amanda Seales’s HBO special. It should be “differentiates a ‘Hannah’ (a person who happens to be white) from a ‘Becky’ (a white person),” not “differentiates a ‘Hannah’ (a white person) from a ‘Becky’ (a person who happens to be white).”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeremy EngleSports is not just about X’s and O’s or wins and losses; it’s also about ethics and economics, race and gender, science and technology, joy and camaraderie, and nearly everything in between. Sports allows us to admire the awesomeness of the human body and the artistry of athletes in action, and to explore stories of grit and resilience and our need for heroes and villains.While it might not be immediately obvious to all teachers, particularly those who aren’t die-hard fans, sports is also an endless source of inspiration for making arguments and throwing down facts.In this lesson, we explore how to use the world of sports to help students effectively develop evidence-based arguments. We suggest three categories for practicing the skill in sports contexts — from making a case for the G.O.A.T. to taking on current sports-world controversies to proposing rule changes to make a sport or tournament better. We end the lesson with a few strategies for bringing debate and argument writing alive in the classroom.Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear your ideas. Post a comment or write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com._________Who is the G.O.A.T.?No, not those cute animals with the horns and the beard. The Greatest of All Time.No matter how seemingly impossible it is to determine the G.O.A.T., it is a perennial favorite argument for sports fans and is debated regularly in The New York Times.The G.O.A.T. argument comes in many forms: Best Game, Best Season, Best Coach, Best Team, Greatest Upset, Greatest Olympian. Even best and worst sports cities.But how do you decide: Is it the accomplishments on the playing field or is it a player’s greater impact beyond his or her sport? How do you compare one era to another?Is Tom Brady the greatest football player of all time? Who would you pick, Michael Jordan or LeBron James? Is Serena Williams the greatest athlete of all time? Or is it Muhammad Ali?Jesse Owens won four gold medals in the Munich Olympics in 1936, broke or equaled nine Olympic records, also set three world records and single-handedly shattered Adolf Hitler’s myth of Aryan superiority; yet his record mark of 10.3 seconds in the 100 meters would today be 21 feet behind Usain Bolt’s record of 9.58. Would it be more fair to incorporate broader cultural accomplishments? Or should the Greatest of All Time focus solely on the numbers?Student Challenge: Make your case for the G.O.A.T.First, ask your students to decide which aspect of the G.O.A.T. debate they would like to tackle: greatest play, season, game, coach, athlete, et cetera.Next, they should define their criteria for greatness: Does greatest mean the player you want to be up at bat in the seventh game of the World Series, two outs in the bottom of the ninth? Is it instead the number of an athlete’s victories? His or her longevity? The relative strength of the competition? The athlete’s impact within, as well as beyond, the sport?Advance Evidence-Based Arguments and Tackle Counterarguments Use a model text or two to help students move from mere assertion or opinion to rigorous, evidence-based argument. Here are a few excerpts to highlight how authors both support claims with evidence and anticipate counterarguments:In “Is Russell Westbrook’s Season the Best Ever? Some Apples and Oranges to Pick From,” Jeré Longman supports his claims with evidence using sports statistics:Westbrook’s season, while awesome, is not the greatest in N.B.A. history. That belongs to none other than Wilt Chamberlain in 1961-62 with the Philadelphia Warriors. Chamberlain averaged 50.4 points and 25.7 rebounds that season and (this may be the greatest stat in all of sports) 48.5 minutes played per game. Regulation games last 48 minutes, but the Warriors played seven games that extended for at least one period of overtime. During that 80-game regular season, Chamberlain played 3,882 of Philadelphia’s possible 3,890 minutes.On March 2, 1962, Chamberlain famously scored 100 points against the Knicks, but that was only the culmination of a four-game stretch in which he scored 67, 65 and 61 points in the three previous games, according to basketball-reference.com. All told, he scored at least 60 points 15 times that season, including a stunning performance on Dec. 8, 1961, against the Lakers, in which Chamberlain delivered 78 points and 43 rebounds.In “It’s Time to Appreciate Serena Williams’s Greatness,” Christopher Clarey anticipates counterarguments:In light of that and Williams’s enduring excellence, there is momentum building behind the concept of deeming her the greatest player ever. It is a subjective process, one in which it is always tempting to give too much weight to the great champion in front of you, the one whose victory under pressure is freshest in your mind.What is beyond dispute is that Williams has not been nearly as consistent in regular tour events during her career as players like Navratilova, Chris Evert and Graf.Navratilova won 167 singles titles as well as 177 doubles titles in an era when doubles was much more prestigious than now. Evert won 154 singles titles. Graf, who did not play as long as Williams has played, won 107. Williams, for the moment, has 67, which puts her in a tie for sixth on the career list with Billie Jean King. …But if “greatest” means the player who would have beaten all the rest at their peaks, it is hard not to feel a strong pull in Williams’s direction. Her power serving and her serving under pressure are weapons that no other great player has possessed to the same degree. Modern equipment is certainly a factor, but she is also complete off the ground and, guided by her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, improving her volleys, overheads and tactical variations.Together, the class might analyze how these authors develop their case for G.O.A.T., for example, by defining their terms for greatness, providing evidence to support claims and anticipating and then considering potential counterclaims.Here are additional resources, from The Times, and elsewhere, that can provide alternative mentor texts:The Fine Line: What Makes Simone Biles the World’s Best Gymnast Eliud Kipchoge Is the Greatest Marathoner, Ever On Team of All-Time Greats, Pelé Shines Brightest Golden State Warriors Are Closing In on History Lindsey Vonn to Retire: Vonn Leaves as the Greatest Women’s Skier in History G.O.A.T. Athletes: The Definitive List | Complex.com Babe Didrikson, the Greatest Female Athlete of All Time? | The Guardian Major League Baseball: The Case for Babe Ruth as the Best Ever | Bleacher Report Tom Brady Has Surpassed Joe Montana as the G.O.A.T. | ESPN’s First Take (Video) LeBron James Has Already Passed Michael Jordan as Greatest Player | Fox Sports - Undisputed (Video)Ultimately, there is no right answer to the G.O.A.T. question. To some, Jesse Owens will always be the G.O.A.T. for his cultural impact; for others, Bill Russell’s 11 N.B.A. championships will trump all other measures. But that is the beauty of the debate. And in the end, it’s about the power of the argument to persuade others — at least for that day — who is the Greatest of All Time._________Should athletes who use steroids be barred from professional sports? Should players have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Should college athletes be paid?These are just a few of the countless debates that come and go in the world of sports. Any one of them is ripe for students to investigate and debate to practice their inquiry and argument skills.In this section we present three sports-related case studies to demonstrate how students can develop good research questions, assert a strong claim and study mentor texts as a way to improve their debate writing and speaking skills. And these three topics are just the tip of the iceberg; at the end of the section, we suggest another 11 current issues in sports for students to explore. And we’re confident your students would have plenty more topics to add to our list.Case Study #1. Sports and ConcussionsSports are often associated with heroism — endurance, toughness, and valor. It has long been assumed that an athlete will have to make physical sacrifices to achieve greatness. But the sacrifice is now being questioned because of changes in our understanding of the impact sports can have on our bodies and minds.The brain trauma sustained in football and other contact sports is now linked to long-term cognitive impairment, including memory loss, confusion, depression and dementia. Although media coverage of concussions has focused on tackle football, these health issues are evident in many other sports like hockey, soccer, basketball, Nascar, skiing, snowboarding and BMX freestyle, among others.The debate is not merely academic; it is causing significant changes to our understanding of athletes and athletics and is threatening the future viability of some of the world’s most popular sports.Develop Winning QuestionsResearch generally begins with asking good questions. Even a topic as seemingly straight forward as sports-related concussions has many layers of complexity. So students should begin their research by asking themselves: What about this topic interests me most? What do I want to learn more about?For example, if they want to start with the science, they might generate questions like: What is the impact of a single concussion? What is the long-term impact of brain trauma? What is the degenerative brain disease C.T.E.? And what is the impact of concussions on youths?Or they may instead decide to investigate the role equipment plays, look into possible reforms or consider ethical implications. If they decide to go in any of these directions, they might come up with questions like: How do concussions affect athletes’ short- and long-term physical and mental health? How does this affect the people around them? What is the role of equipment in brain trauma? Can equipment reduce concussions or does it give players a false sense of security, therefore making the problem worse? Should parents let their children play football? Or are we obsessing about the dangers? Should we as fans still watch football?No matter what question or questions students start with, research inevitably leads to asking more questions.Some other relevant resources: 110 N.F.L. Brains. All But One Had C.T.E. A Football Player’s Descent Into Pain and Paranoia Anatomy of a Traditional Football Helmet Concussions Can Occur in All Youth SportsCanadian Football’s Big Steps to Reduce Hits, a Contrast to the N.F.L.Case Study #2. National Anthem ProtestsPolitical activism and protests by athletes are nothing new. Muhammad Ali publicly criticized the Vietnam War. John Carlos and Tommie Smith raised fists during a medal ceremony at the 1968 Olympics. Following the fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and the other members of the Miami Heat posted a photo of themselves wearing hooded sweatshirts in his memory. But perhaps no act of political protest today is more polarizing than the stance by Colin Kaepernick to kneel during the national anthem at N.F.L. games.If students want to argue a position related to recent national anthem protests, they should start by asking a question. For example, should athletes have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Or are athletes who protest being patriotic or unpatriotic? As students do research, they will gather evidence that will support a position. Once they find enough compelling evidence, they are ready to assert a claim (or thesis or resolution).Assert a Claim In small groups or as a whole class, students can debate one or more claims that were generated by students — or the teacher. After they have the opportunity to test their arguments with their peers and hear other points of view, they can write up their argument as an essay or editorial.Below are a few possible resolutions that students can affirm or negate, with related articles below.Resolution 1: The N.F.L. has the right to demand that its players stand during the national anthem.Surprise! The N.F.L. National Anthem Problem Is Not Going Away. N.F.L. Anthem Policy Bound to Please Only the N.F.L. Trump Supports N.F.L.’s New National Anthem Policy Dolphins Policy Says Players Could Be Suspended for Anthem ProtestsResolution 2: Colin Kaepernick is a hero.Why Kaepernick Takes the Knee This Time, Colin Kaepernick Takes a Stand by Kneeling The Awakening of Colin Kaepernick The Deafening Silence of Colin Kaepernick Colin Kaepernick’s Nike Campaign Keeps N.F.L. Anthem Kneeling in SpotlightResolution 3: Schools have the right to suspend student-athletes who protest during their games.Protest Started by Colin Kaepernick Spreads to High School Students High School Students Explain Why They Protest Anthems and Pledges High Schools Threaten to Punish Students Who Kneel During Anthem High School Students Kicked Off Football Team After Protesting During National AnthemResolution 4: Athletes who are politically active are a distraction to their teams and should stick to competing in their sport.In 2017, Many Athletes Found Their Voices Should Athletes Stick to Sports? Colin Kaepernick and the Myth of the ‘Good’ ProtestCase Study #3. Performance-Enhancing DrugsCheating has always existed in sports: spitballs in baseball; weighted gloves in boxing; stealing another team’s signs. Players are always looking for an edge, but perhaps none is more contentious and troubling than the edge that performance-enhancing drugs provide — steroids, human growth hormone, blood doping.Some of sports’ most celebrated athletes have been caught using PEDs: for example, the cyclist Lance Armstrong, the gold-medal runner Marion Jones, the tennis champion Maria Sharapova and the Ultimate Fighting Championship star Jon Jones. In 2018, the entire Russian Winter Olympic team was barred from competing for doping violations.Let’s say students have already generated their research questions related to the topic of performance-enhancing drugs in sports, they have done initial research, and they have asserted a claim they plan to defend in writing. What else can they do before they start typing to get an edge?Study the ProsAnalyzing mentor texts can help students identify how writers build arguments using claims, reasons and supporting details, and they can help students see how to develop effective counterarguments as well.Here are excerpts from two Opinion essays offering opposing viewpoints to the question: Should known steroid users be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame?In “Keep Rose, Bond and Clemens Out of the Baseball Hall of Fame,” Bijan C. Bayne makes the case for why Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, two statistical heavyweights in the sport, should not be inducted into the Hall of Fame:Bonds and Clemens … sealed their own Hall of Fame fates.Bonds has said he didn’t know what was in ointments and injections he received — the “clear” and the “cream” — or that they contained steroids. Bonds insults our intelligence by feigning ignorance. World-class athletes know how many grams of protein are in a six ounce portion of salmon. Why would he use these substances without knowing their purpose?While some might say that performance-enhancing drugs don’t enhance the hand-eye coordination that made him great even before he seems to have started using them, they do produce stronger, larger muscles that facilitate quicker reaction times. Larger muscles also increase hitting power. And these drugs allow for faster recovery times after the fatigue of weight training and aid athletic endurance.Zev Chafets argues the other side in “Let Steroids Into the Hall of Fame”:Purists say that steroids alter the game. But since the Hall opened its doors, baseball has never stopped changing. Batters now wear body padding and helmets. The pitcher’s mound has risen and fallen. Bats have more pop. Night games affect visibility. Players stay in shape in the off-season. Expansion has altered the game’s geography. And its demography has changed beyond recognition. Babe Ruth never faced a black pitcher. As Chris Rock put it, Ruth’s record consisted of “714 affirmative-action home runs.” This doesn’t diminish Ruth’s accomplishment, but it puts it into context.After reading these different points of view, students can brainstorm a list of strengths and weaknesses in each article and in each writer’s argument. Which argument is more effective? Convincing? Memorable? What elements are fact versus opinion? When is opinion most appropriate in an argument? Are there any aspects of either article that seem weak? Why? What might make these arguments stronger?Together, the class can create a list of dos and don’ts for building an argument. For example, “DO: support your ideas with relevant statistics.” Or, “DON’T: assume your reader will agree with your viewpoint.”For students researching this topic, here are just a few of the many related resources in The Times and elsewhere:Some other relevant resourcesShould Doping Be Allowed? Testing Levels the Playing Field How to Fight Doping in Sports Would legal doping level playing field? A Voice of Skepticism on the Impact of Steroids There Are No Sound Moral Arguments Against Performance-Enhancing Drugs Performance-enhancing drugs: Know the risks | Mayo Clinic Why Cheating in Sports Is Prevalent — and We Can’t Stop It | Forbes Magazine The Steroid Problem, and How to Fix It | Sports Illustrated Kids_________Other Current Debates in SportsWe have provided three possible case studies above to explore, but there are innumerable questions to research, discuss and debate. Here is an additional list of 11 questions. And of course, students can suggest their own topics.Should Every Young Athlete Get a Trophy? Should Character Matter in Pro Sports? Is It Wrong to Let Children Do Extreme Sports? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Gambling on Sporting Events Be Legal? Should Male and Female Athletes Be Paid the Same? Is Technology Helping or Hurting Sports? Is the 3-Point Basket Ruining Basketball? Is Horse Racing Ethical? Are Advanced Statistics Helping or Hurting Sports? Should Offensive Team Names and Mascots Be Ended?_________Asking students to question the status quo in the world of sports doesn’t only help them strengthen their argument writing and speaking skills, but it can also strengthen their creative thinking and problem-solving skills.A. Propose a New Sport for the OlympicsWe have all played or watched sports. But what exactly is a sport?What is the difference between a sport and a hobby? Is fishing a sport? How about poker? What about E-sports? Should the top players of League of Legends be considered athletes? And if so, would they be in the same class as LeBron James?How about chess?Don’t answer too quickly; chess is recognized as a sport in 107 countries. Poker is broadcast on ESPN.Define Your TermsAn essential aspect of making an effective argument is the need to be clear and precise in defining terms. We discussed earlier about how one defines G.O.A.T. frames the entire “greatest of all time” debate. The same can be said for defining terms like “performance-enhancing drugs” in the debate about steroids or “patriotic” in the discussion about national anthem protests. When it comes to deciding what should or should not be considered a sport, or an Olympic sport, defining the term “sport” is essential.Students might begin by reading the following articles and then designing their own criteria for what is or isn’t a sport:Are Video Games a Sport Born on Sideline, Cheering Clamors to Be Sport Competitive Bridge Is Not a Sport, a British Court RulesStudent Challenge: Make a formal argument to the International Olympic Committee to add or delete a sport.The fight over which sports get to be featured in the Olympics sheds light on the continuing societal question, “What is a sport?” Currently, there are 28 summer and 15 winter Olympic sports. (See the full list of sports here.) Did you know life saving is  officially recognized by the International Olympic Committee as a sport (though, as Victor Mather writes, “that doesn’t mean it will take its place in the Summer Games alongside venerable sports like track, basketball and synchronized swimming”).Students can begin their research with the following examples:Are Video Games Olympic Material? Some Boosters Say Yes The Olympics Would Be Better With a Breakdancing Competition. Discuss. Great Moments in Cheerleading: Could the Olympics Be Next? Too Many Olympic Events, or Not Enough?Next, students should pick one Olympic sport to add or delete. They should then prepare an argument to support this proposal.In making their case, students should compare the sports they are proposing to existing Olympic sports, and provide criteria for assessing those comparisons.In his Room for Debate opinion essay “Drop the Sliding Sports,” Robert K. Barney writes:Are there some winter sports that should be dropped? It may be perceived by many as blasphemous, but I have always had a difficult time in equating the demonstrated lack of athletic qualities in winter sliding sports, like bobsled, luge and skeleton, that depend more on technology and less on athleticism with those sports that reflect the epitome of strength, agility, endurance and strategy (nordic and Alpine skiing, speed and figure skating, and so on).B. Propose a Rule ChangeRules are essential for any game or sport, yet they change all the time. How basketball is played can vary greatly from state to state. Every few years, it seems, the National Football League changes what qualifies as a catch and a legal tackle, alternately confusing and infuriating players and fans alike.Student Challenge: Propose a rule change to improve the game.For inspiration, students might read some of these proposed changes — big and small, practical as well as fantastical — from the pages of The Times before making a pitch for their own rule changes.Baseball’s Too Slow. Here’s How You Fix It. Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination In a Hole, Golf Considers Digging a Wider One Still Questioning the Best-of-Five Format in Men’s Tennis Drivers, Start Your Calculators: Nascar Introduces New Scoring System Room for Debate: Raise the RimConsider the Proposal From All SidesWhether you want to raise the basketball rim by six inches or triple the size of a golf hole, you’ll need to consider how the change would affect the sport from all angles. In guiding their research for the development of their proposal, students should keep in mind the following questions:• What are some weaknesses of the current game? (e.g., amount of scoring, length or speed of the game, popularity, and ratings)• What are the causes of the weakness? (e.g., tradition, the age of the fan base, technology)• What are some possible solutions?• How hard would it be to put the rule change in place?• What might be the drawbacks or unintended consequences of your game change?• How might purists or other critics respond to your rule change? How might you try to persuade them to join your side?In “Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination,” Rob Hughes passionately states a perceived problem in the current game of soccer:The penalty shootout is an abomination. It reduces a team sport to a contrived tiebreaker that obliges physically tired and emotionally drained players to step up one by one, trudge half the length of the field and try to shoot down the opponent’s goalkeeper from 12 yards....Júlio César Soares de Espíndola — to give him his full title — guessed correctly and dove the right way to save the first two penalty kicks against him. He then was beaten twice. Finally, Júlio César just got plain lucky when Gonzalo Jara fired Chile’s fifth penalty beyond his reach, but against the post.From that twist of fate, that misplacement by inches, Brazil’s hope of winning the World Cup for the sixth time in its illustrious history remains on track. Two hundred million hearts in Brazil can beat again. Chile can go home across the Andes, defeated not by two hours of soccer, but by the lottery of shootouts that have their proper place alongside fairground games such as knocking over targets at a dozen paces.Later, Mr. Hughes considers some solutions to the problem:The old solution used to be that tied games were replayed, but in today’s crowded schedules, expediency demands that the result is decided on that day. FIFA tried the toss of a coin and had rejected a brighter idea from the now defunct North American Soccer League.The N.A.S.L. of the 1970s had, to my mind, a fairer option.It required an outfield player to run with the ball from 35 yards out, giving him five seconds to score and allowing the goalkeeper to advance toward the player.That at least contained more skills than the single shot of a nervous, fatigued individual.No matter what rule they focus on, students should be clear to state the problem with the status quo and support their claim with details. Then they should propose a solution and explain why it would help to eliminate, or at least improve, the problem with the current rule._________Below, we provide a few possible ways students can build their argument writing and speaking skills and demonstrate those skills in front of an audience:A. Write an EditorialHave your students pick a sports-related issue that matters to them, such as inequity in pay for female athletes, and then write an evidence-based persuasive essay like the editorials The New York Times publishes every day. They can practice all year, but save their best work to submit in our annual Student Editorial Contest. (See our contest calendar for more details.) Each year we select 10 winners along with dozens of runners-up and honorable mentions from thousands of submissions.Here are some sports-related editorials from the New York Times Editorial Board that can serve as mentor texts (in addition to our winning editorials from past years):The Corruption at the Heart of March MadnessRein In Online Fantasy Sports Gambling What Time Is the A.F.C. Championship Game? The Scars From ‘Bell-Ringing’ Football Tackles Who Gets to Race as a Woman? Special Olympics Takes On the WorldAdditional Resources for Writing EditorialsStudent Writing Models | Winning Student Editorials. Lesson Plan | Persuading an Audience Using Logos, Pathos and Ethos  Lesson Plan | For the Sake of Argument: Writing Persuasively to Craft Short, Evidence-Based Editorials Lesson Plan | I Don’t Think So: Writing Effective CounterargumentsB. Have a DebateThere are many ways to hold formal and informal debates. Here are a few popular formats:Lincoln-Douglas Debate: In this formal debate format, arguments are divided into timed segments and go back and forth between the “pro” and the “con” sides, with teams presenting arguments, providing evidence to support arguments and offering rebuttals. See our 2004 lesson Weighing the War for more details about this format.Roundtable Discussion: Students take on the role of experts and engage in a talk show-style debate similar to the discussion format on such TV shows as “Meet the Press.”Tournament Brackets: Students hold a research- and debate-based “tournament” to determine the “winners” of each round, until a final winner is declared.Structured Academic Controversy: Pairs assigned to each position research and then present their argument to a pair that is assigned the opposing side. The debate follows these steps: Identify the argument; present the argument; restate the argument; discuss opinions; share conclusions; debrief the exercise. See our lesson On ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’: Debating a Proposed Repeal for more details about this format.Moving Debate: After preparing for a debate on an assigned topic, students are arranged in the room in three sections: agree, disagree and neutral/unsure. The debate proceeds with “members” of each section taking turns to make arguments for their position and ask questions of others. As they are beginning to question, refine or change their positions (even momentarily so), they physically move to the sections of the room that reflect their mind-set. See the civics section of our lesson Preserve, Protect and Defend? Considering Violent Protests and American Values for more details about this format.Other resourcesConstructing Arguments: ‘Room for Debate’ and the Common Core Standards Reader Idea | Using Room for Debate to Teach Argumentative Writing and Discussion Skills Winners of Our Student Contest Featured in a Special Room for Debate Post Reader Idea | Debates on Persuasive Language That Extend Outside of ClassC. Use Our Daily Student Opinion PromptsOf all the resources we publish on The Learning Network, perhaps it’s our vast collection of writing prompts that is our most widely used resource for teaching and learning with The Times.So scroll through the sports-related prompts below and see which ones most inspire you to take a stand. Each question comes from our daily Student Opinion feature, and each provides links to free Times resources for finding more information.Are Some Youth Sports Too Intense? Should There Be Stricter Rules About How Coaches Treat Their Players? Do Sports Teams Have a Responsibility to Hold Players to a Standard for Their Personal Conduct? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Colleges Fund Wellness Programs Instead of Sports? Do Fans Put Too Much Pressure on Their Favorite Professional Athletes? How Much Should Fans Be Allowed to Distract Opposing Teams? Has Baseball Lost Its Cool? Should Women’s Basketball Lower the Rims? Is It Offensive for Sports Teams to Use Native American Names and Mascots? Should Technology in Sports Be Limited?D. Create A Public Service AnnouncementThere are many ways to present an argument; while many of our previous examples focus on writing and speaking, visual thinking is also important. Public service announcements can be both fun and a challenging way for students to take a stance on an issue and to creatively persuade audiences.Students can begin with traditional forms of research and then identify an issue or stance they want to take before envisioning their P.S.A. They can then plan, storyboard, rehearse, record and edit a 30- or 60-second video including a tagline and message.To start, students should view and analyze professional sports public service announcements to understand the strengths and weaknesses of the form. You can use these professional PSAs as models:Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality NFL Players & Coaches Stand Together to Cure ALS NFL Players’ Concussion PSA: Be Man Enough to Admit When You’re Hurt PSA Youth Concussions UEFA’s Anti-racism Resolution Thierry Henry Stand UP, Speak UP CommercialAs a class, analyze and discuss: What is a public service announcement? How is it different from a commercial? What is the message of the P.S.A.? Who is the target audience? What video and audio elements were used? How did these elements strengthen the message? How effective was the P.S.A.? How might you improve it?After identifying their issue or question and conducting research, students can begin planning their public service announcement.Here are some process steps to consider:• Determine a clear message. • Identify a target audience. • Develop a tagline or slogan. • Brainstorm video (stills, graphics, performers) and audio (narration, voice-over, music, sound effects) elements you will use to convey your message. • Storyboard your PSA. • Rehearse. • Record. • Edit._________Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear more about how. Write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com, or post a comment here. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben RothenbergMELBOURNE, Australia — With the end in sight, the capacity crowd inside Melbourne Arena rose to its feet. Andy Murray soaked in their ovation, and their emotions, and then began to let his out.As his first-round match at the Australian Open reached the four-hour mark Monday evening, Murray was trailing his Spanish opponent, Roberto Bautista Agut, by 1-5 in the fifth. His time, he knew, was almost up.Murray had battled valiantly to force that final set, coming back after losing the first two to level the match. He even had looked — briefly — as if he might take command of the fifth set as well before Bautista Agut reeled off five straight games, putting a comeback well out of Murray’s reach.So when the crowd rose to salute him, Murray, tears visible in his eyes, raised his right arm to acknowledge the applause, seeming to accept the fond farewell and his fate. But he was not quite done: He saved one match point and held serve, delaying the inevitable by one game, buying himself a fragment of time.Bautista Agut, the No. 22 seed, served out his victory one game later, closing out a 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-7 (4), 6-2 result after 4 hours 9 minutes.It was the longest match of the first day of the Australian Open, and a fine representation of a dogged career that may be ending soon.Murray, a three-time Grand Slam champion whose ranking has slipped to 229th, has been slowed by a hip injury for more than a year. He said in his pretournament news conference on Friday that he had set Wimbledon this year as his “end point,” and that he could not rule out that this tournament might be his last.“If this was my last match, an amazing way to end,” Murray said in an on-court interview. “I gave literally everything I had.”Murray had made the match more competitive than many expected; while he has been hobbled, Bautista Agut won an ATP tournament in Doha, Qatar, eight days ago. Though his movement was visibly encumbered at times, Murray maintained many of his other gifts, and fought his way through several long rallies with his signature drop shots, giving a crowd that included his mother, Judy, and brother, Jamie, plenty to cheer.“Today I knew it was potentially the last match I play; I don’t care if I damage my hip anymore in the match,” Murray said, “so it’s a bit easier to deal with the pain because I know that I don’t have to hit balls tomorrow.”By the time Murray had joined his former coach Mark Petchey for an on-court interview, his raw emotions seemed to have settled, which almost seemed to catch him off guard.“Actually,” he said, “I think I’m going to be all right.”Despite the finality of his remarks on Friday, and despite the eulogies for his career that had been shared in the days since — including a tribute video from other top players that played as he stood on the court Monday night — Murray left the door open to a return.“I don’t know — maybe I’ll see you again,” he said, drawing cheers from the crowd. “I’ll do everything possible to try. If I want to go again, I’ll need to have a big operation, which there’s no guarantees I’ll be able to come back from anyway. But I’ll give it my best shot.”Murray was referring to a hip resurfacing operation like the one that the doubles player Bob Bryan underwent last year; Bryan is trying to come back this season. In his postmatch news conference, Murray said that he would decide soon between struggling through months of further pain without surgery in order to play Wimbledon as a last hurrah, or to have the surgery with an eye on continuing his career after rehabilitation.Murray said he thought he would make his decision “in the next week or so.”“If I go ahead with the operation and I don’t recover well from it, then I don’t play again — I’m aware of that,” he said. “That is the decision that I have to make. It will improve my quality of life; I’ll be in less pain doing just normal things like walking around and putting your shoes and socks on and things. Just now, going to walk my dogs, playing football with my friends, is like the worst thing I can think of doing. Like, I hate it, because it’s so sore and it’s uncomfortable.”Those cold realities probably will sink in for Murray soon after he leaves Melbourne. But he said he would be O.K. if Monday’s loss was his final match.“If today was my last match, look: it was a brilliant way to finish,” he said. “That’s something that I’ll probably take into consideration, as well. It was an amazing atmosphere. I literally gave everything that I had on the court, fought as best as I could, and performed a lot better than what I should have done without the amount I’ve been able to practice and train.”Murray is known for his indefatigable work ethic, so settling for the less painful option has never been his strong suit.“It’s also been a flaw of mine,” he said. “Some people might say, ‘It’s a positive thing that Andy worked really, really hard, such and such, trained hard.’ But I also often didn’t stop myself when I was being told to do things. I should have sometimes said, ‘No, I’m not doing that today.’ Or: ‘No, I don’t want to train today. I’m sore, I need a day off.’ I didn’t do that. I would always kind of just go along with what I was being told. That was a mistake.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanAn ESPN series covers the two-sport phenom Deion Sanders. And it’s the last day for Netflix subscribers to catch the Coen brothers’ classic “The Big Lebowski” on that platform. 30 FOR 30: DEION’S DOUBLE PLAY 9 p.m. on ESPN. During the past 10 years, ESPN’s “30 for 30” series has covered stories about the world’s most intriguing athletes and sports figures, like O. J. Simpson, Andrés Escobar and Bo Jackson. Jackson appears in this latest installment, which focuses on another two-sport athlete, Deion Sanders, and the 24 hours in 1992 when he attempted to play professional baseball, for the Braves, and football, for the Falcons. The documentary, narrated by the rapper Ludacris, features interviews with former Braves and Falcons players, coaches and sportscasters.TRUCK NIGHT IN AMERICA 10 p.m. on History. At a time when you can find a TV show that focuses on just about any niche topic — pimple-popping, extreme couponing, making cakes poorly — it’s not surprising that there would be one completely devoted to large, customized trucks. The new season of this competition series pits five drivers against one another in monster-truck-rally-style challenges, like climbing mounds of crushed cars or trudging through swamps. The two best drivers will compete to win $10,000, taking their rigs through an obstacle course called the Green Hell.THE BIG LEBOWSKI (1998) on Netflix, Crackle, Google Play, YouTube, Amazon Prime, iTunes and Vudu. Last week, Jeff Bridges (who played the Dude in this movie) teased a reprisal of his cardigan-wearing character in a short clip on Twitter. And by Monday, fans of “The Big Lebowski” got the rest of the footage in the form of a short Super Bowl ad for Stella Artois, featuring the Dude alongside Carrie Bradshaw turning down their usual drinks of choice for the Stellas. Once you’ve had your fill of watching Bridges say “ar-toes,” drink down this original Coen brothers’ classic, if only to remind yourself of just how good it is. It leaves Netflix on Friday.TAG (2018) on HBO’s streaming platforms. Six years ago, The Wall Street Journal profiled a group of adult men in their 40s who, in the past two decades, had kept up a long-running game of tag since high school, flying around the country, hiding in bushes and popping out of car trunks to avoid being “it” for an entire year. By 2018, the incredible true antics had inspired a feature film, starring Jon Hamm, Ed Helms, Hannibal Buress, Jeremy Renner and Jake Johnson. And while the game and its players might seem juvenile, the film also touches on the anxiety that can accompany aging. In his review, The New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote, “The story does wander into a few dark corners of middle age: romantic disappointment; addiction and recovery; the possibility of illness and the inevitability of death.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisThe me too Movement, an advocacy organization that fights sexual violence and harassment, released four short videos on Monday featuring survivors telling their stories.The animated videos — public service announcements that are all about a minute or two long — are each narrated by a survivor of sexual violence as elegant illustrations accompany their voices. (The survivors are not shown.)Words spoken by the narrators are also drawn on screen: “It wasn’t my fault.” “Speak out.” “Hope.” Each video ends with a message to other survivors: “We hear you. We see you. We believe you.”Two of the videos are narrated by women, Emily Waters and Daniela Contreras; Ms. Contreras speaks in Spanish. The others are narrated by men; one is an anonymous 31-year-old and the other is the actor and former football player Terry Crews.After the initial articles about Harvey Weinstein were published in 2017, Mr. Crews accused Adam Venit, an executive at a prominent talent agency, of having groped him. (Mr. Crews refers to the articles in his video, but Mr. Weinstein’s name is bleeped out as if it were a curse.) Mr. Venit eventually resigned and wrote a letter to Mr. Crews asking for his forgiveness.“I will not be shamed,” Mr. Crews said in his video. “I did nothing wrong.”It has been over a year since “Me Too” became a viral hashtag and a force that knocked men who were accused of abuse from positions of power. But the original Me Too movement was started more than 10 years ago by Tarana Burke, and it was her group made that the videos.“These powerful shorts place the focus back where it belongs: the dignity, humanity and healing of all survivors,” Ms. Burke said. “These courageous individuals are not alone and we hope that people around the world see their journeys reflected in the words of these brave individuals.”The videos, which were screened at the Sundance Film Festival on Saturday, were made in partnership with the marketing agency Deutsch. They were released on the me too Movement’s YouTube channel on Monday.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Melina Delkic and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. It’s here.The special counsel, Robert Mueller, delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William Barr.It was the apparent close of an investigation that has captivated the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. We don’t yet know the report’s contents. Mr. Barr will now decide how much of it to share with Congress and, by extension, the public. Above, Mr. Mueller leaving the Capitol in 2017.Mr. Mueller will not recommend that any new charges be filed, a senior Justice Department official said. Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in 2017, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, and dozens of Russians were charged.Find our guides to major moments in the case, and what we already know about the main findings, lines of inquiry and players._____2. The path to the report’s potential release is complicated. The House voted unanimously this month to make its findings public, and now it’s up to Attorney General William Barr, pictured above, to decide how much of it to share.In a letter to congressional leaders, he said he might brief them within days. House Democrats are already calling for the release of not only the full report, but also the underlying documents and findings. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York urged Mr. Barr not to give the White House a “sneak preview” of the report before the public can see it.Watch our video guide to how we got here. Still have questions? Ask our reporters about the latest developments and what may come next._____3. President Trump rolled back sanctions against North Korea today, confusing advisers who had put them in place only a day earlier. The move, announced on Twitter, was a remarkable display of dissension in the Trump administration. The Treasury announced sanctions Thursday on two Chinese shipping companies it said were helping North Korea evade international sanctions.The sanctions came weeks after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, collapsed without a nuclear deal. Above, the two leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, in February.“President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesn’t think these sanctions will be necessary,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary._____4. Indonesia’s national airline wants to cancel a $4.9 billion order of dozens of Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of two deadly crashes.The move would be the first publicly confirmed cancellation attempt since the Ethiopian Airlines crash of a Max 8 that killed 157 people. Above, planes belonging to the airline, Garuda Indonesia.It’s unclear if the cancellation will move forward, as it is difficult to cancel such agreements once they have been signed. Few analysts expect other airlines to follow suit._____5. Stocks fell today as the bond market flashed a recession warning.When long-term yields fall below yields on short-term bonds, it’s called a yield curve inversion. It’s one of Wall Street’s favored predictors of a recession, and these have preceded every recession over the last 60 years. And it happened on Friday.In other business news, Tesla’s sales may have dropped sharply in recent months, after a federal tax credit was reduced, according to vehicle registration data. Above, a Tesla showroom.And one industry is making an unexpected comeback: Paper mills are seeing a resurgence as online retailers like Amazon fuel demand for cardboard boxes._____6. A gatekeeper for recruited athletes applying to the University of Southern California was once known as a stickler for the rules.Now, Donna Heinel, the university’s former athletic department administrator, is accused of being at the fulcrum of the nationwide scandal, conspiring with a private admissions consultant to obtain millions in bribes and then easing two dozen students into U.S.C. on bogus athletic credentials.Ms. Heinel was “as hard as it gets,” a former coach said. She meticulously combed through recruits’ files, clashing with coaches when she found flaws. Above, Ms. Heinel posing with students during a football game in 2016.One of the recruits she appeared to block from admission went to a rival university — and competed in the 2016 Olympics.Elsewhere in California, we traveled to a West Hollywood school where proctors are accused of giving test answers to students. Sign up for California Today for more West Coast news._____7. The world’s largest international police organization is supposed to be a force for safety and security — one that transcends national boundaries and brings together democracies and autocracies.Instead, according to records and interviews across five continents, Interpol prioritized international expansion over safeguards, meaning despots and human rights violators could potentially use the agency to arrest people based on political motivations. Above, Interpol’s headquarters in Lyon, France.A crucial part of the system is the red notice, a kind of warrant in which police officers in one country ask foreign counterparts to make an arrest. When the system works, it helps catch murderers, rapists and sexual predators who cross national borders. But it has also been used to target refugees and dissidents._____8. It’s hard enough being a teenager, balancing rigorous schoolwork with social pressures that are heightened by online platforms.Imagine being one of the few black and Hispanic students at one of the country’s most selective public schools. That’s what the 29 black students — out of 3,300 — at Stuyvesant High School in New York, pictured above, experience.Sarai Pridgen, a 16-year-old sophomore, said she wasn’t surprised when she saw that only seven black students were admitted for the fall. “It was the same wave of disappointment I feel every time I look at the demographics of this school.”_____9. It’s Day 2 of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.No. 1-seeded Virginia rallied out of a deep hole to advance. It was a chance to atone for its unprecedented early exit from the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament, when it became the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16.U.C. Irvine, a 13th seed, upset No. 4 Kansas State. It was the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the Irvine program’s history. Above, the game between U.C. Irvine and Kansas State.Read live updates here.Saturday’s first game will be Maryland vs. L.S.U. at 12:10 p.m., and then Wofford versus Kentucky._____10. Finally, travel changes your life.At least, that’s what Rick Steves, the PBS travel host for nearly two decades, wants you to believe. For The Times Magazine’s Voyages issue, Mr. Steves, pictured above, spoke to our writer about his desire to convert the untraveled, and his role as a sort of spiritual travel agent for America’s middle classes.Our writer asked why he doesn’t ease up on his extensive travel schedule — which occupies him for four months a year. “What would I do if I stayed home?” Mr. Steves said. “Not much. Nothing I would remember.”Have a memorable night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahI have decided to stop watching football given the recent findings about the frequency with which concussions occur and the long-term effects of those concussions on the players. I am not trying to take a stand and change any of my family’s or friends’ opinions, but I do want to feel like I’m doing my part. Can I still follow my team in some way, though? I’m a Jets fan (O.K., maybe I’m not giving up much by not watching), and I really like keeping up with their season. What involvement with the team would be ethical? Can I read up on the team in the newspaper? What if I walk into a restaurant and a game is on television? Is it O.K. if I watch it there? After all, they’ve chosen to play, and maybe I should respect that. Name WithheldA body of research suggests that football causes long-term brain damage in many players. Still, as you point out, the players are in a position to decide for themselves whether they want to run the risks. Those who do well in the sport expect to earn more money and more glory than they would in another endeavor. So you could just think this puts the responsibility on them. If they’re rational, they are, in effect, making the judgment that they are better off playing than not, even with a serious prospect of incurring chronic traumatic encephalopathy (C.T.E.), not to mention other chronic injuries and conditions.That’s not the end of the discussion, though. When it comes to exposing workers to hazards, our views aren’t straightforward. Bureau of Labor Statistics from 2016 show 24,650 nonfatal injuries among construction workers, 28,740 injuries among local law-enforcement officers, 80,180 injuries among those for whom driving is part of their job. If you choose to be a roofer rather than a groundskeeper and accept a greater risk of injury for more pay, we’re O.K. with that. But the reason we have OSHA standards is that we think measures to abate hazards should be taken where feasible. The potential for grievous injury is surely part of why people watch Nascar races; we still expect drivers to use six-point harnesses and flame-retardant suits.It isn’t obvious how this principle should be applied to a game like football. Some think that new high-tech helmets will help; others argue that no helmets at all would be safer, because (as in rugby) it might discourage head collisions. Players spend much more time in practice than in actual games, and some think that practice needs to be reformed to avoid the subconcussive impacts that have been linked to C.T.E. There’s more research to be done, more rethinking of the rules of the game. Players who lower their heads and initiate helmet contact can now be penalized, and maybe there’s a way to expand that penalty category. The existing penalties can certainly be increased and made more of a deterrent. Shortening the preseason could help, too. But if you really care about the welfare of football players, you should want not just to turn your back on bad practices but also to advocate for better ones.A utilitarian, who assesses actions by their effects, would point out that nothing you’re proposing to do contributes to that effort. You can avoid newspaper coverage or screens in sports bars, but given your refusal to urge anyone else to refrain from attending or watching games, that gesture will be undetectable to the football authorities, not to mention sports journalists, and puts no pressure on them. (At least in picking the Jets to follow you’ve made it easier to skip every Super Bowl, from which fate seems to have decided they would be excluded for the past half-century.)But again, that’s not the end of the discussion. Might there be a reason to shun a harmful activity even if doing so won’t have beneficial effects? There are two lines of argument to consider here: one associated with Immanuel Kant and the other with Aristotle. A Kantian test for assessing an action is to consider whether it flows from a principle that you’d have reason to want everyone to follow. Let’s suppose everyone’s boycotting football would lead to swift changes to make the game much safer or even bring the sport to an end. (Here, the utilitarian would note that the end of football might lead to worse lives for those who now play the game at all levels and to the loss not just of a lot of pleasure among fans but also of jobs for commentators, stadium staff, officials and the like.) You can still wonder whether that Kantian strategy of the universalized maxim matters if, in the real world, none of your sports-fan friends are going to follow your lead.One reason to refrain from fandom is simply that you may not want to be the sort of person who takes pleasure in a game that is causing serious and unnecessary harm to its players. An approach to ethics that focuses on what kind of person you are — so-called virtue ethics — is often associated with Aristotle. It tends to judge action in terms of character, rather than the other way around, and you hear its echoes in a familiar formula of reproval: “What kind of person would ... ?”Let me offer a final consideration: In following the game, in joining the culture that sustains football, in its current form, as an American institution, you are not causing harm directly — but you are, in a sense, participating in causing harm. You’ve been enlisted in a collective action that you view with disapproval. In this regard, you can be part of the problem, even if the problem would persist if you weren’t.My husband and I are struggling to conceive. We’ve been seeing a fertility specialist and going through cycles of treatment. We started with oral medications, to which unfortunately I stopped responding. We have since moved on to injectable medications. If this doesn’t work, we’ll at some point have to start thinking about IVF. Though I desperately want to have a baby of our own, I’m struggling with whether it is ethical to go through the rather incredible lengths to get pregnant that IVF requires when there are children who urgently need homes. I know that the cost of adoption, and the difficulty of actually successfully adopting a baby, make it likely as emotionally grueling (and more expensive than) as an IVF cycle. Still, the effort would go to providing a home for a baby who needs one. More pressing is the number of children in the foster-care system. We’ve talked about fostering children in the future, but in our minds that would occur after we’d had some experience parenting. I do not feel that right now we could take on the enormous responsibility of foster care. I do feel we are ready for a baby of our own; children in foster care generally need a great deal more than a new baby does.The bottom line is this: Though I want to have a biological child, and my husband definitely does want to go to IVF if it comes to that, I am struggling to wrap my head around going through so much intervention when we could instead take in a child who needs a home. Am I off base here, or do we have a duty to give homes to children who need them when we can’t easily have children of our own? Name WithheldTaking on a child who already exists and needs a home is an enormously worthy thing to do, if you’re confident that you can bond with him or her and create a loving environment. But you don’t have a duty to adopt one. There are many things we each could do — such as being a parent to one of the hundred thousand or so foster children in this country who need a new family — that would improve the world. But morality doesn’t demand that we do all the good we can. If you had a duty to adopt a foster child, it wouldn’t be enormously worthy, just required.Plenty of couples want to conceive but would choose to have no children rather than adopt a foster child. That’s essentially the position you’re in: You don’t feel prepared to provide foster care. It follows that a child you and your husband might have together wouldn’t be depriving a foster child of a home. And you’re not obliged to remain childless.Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His books include “Cosmopolitanism,” “The Honor Code” and “The Lies That Bind: Rethinking Identity.” To submit a query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. (Include a daytime phone number.)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracySAN JOSE, Calif. — It was 85 degrees in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on Aug. 18, and Nick Saban was feeling the heat.Midway through training camp, many of Alabama’s younger players had not progressed as Saban had hoped. A talented linebacker for the Crimson Tide, the defending national champion, had recently sustained a severe knee injury, and the prior season’s starting right tackle had broken his foot.[Alabama vs. Clemson: Follow our live coverage from the national championship game]“We don’t have enough depth, especially on defense, to afford to be able to lose those kinds of players,” Saban told a group of reporters.Then Saban was asked whether the lack of progress among the more inexperienced players worried him.And that’s when Saban, this era’s most successful college coach and recruiter, snapped. His expletive-tinged remark went viral online.“You just think we, whatever happens, we just” — um, spit — “another player,” he said.“‘Everything’s going to be perfect,’” he added facetiously. “All of our fans think that. You all think that — that’s what you write about, that’s the message you send out there.”Five months later, Saban is one win away from his seventh national title. The No. 1 Crimson Tide (14-0) will face No. 2 Clemson (14-0) in Monday night’s championship game. So in fact, everything has been perfect, or very close to it, with Alabama conjuring new, great players, seemingly out of thin air, whenever they were needed.Of all the work that has positioned Alabama to secure its sixth national title in 10 seasons — recruiting young stars, developing N.F.L.-caliber players, evolving schemes, managing games — the most unheralded might be the program’s extraordinary depth. It stacks top-ranked recruiting classes, one on top of the other, over and over and over, nearly every year.In an era when college football seasons can stretch to 15 games, increasing the risk of injury, and when rules restricting player transfers have been loosened, depth has become the ultimate weapon separating the best from the very good.Somehow, the highest-rated prospects in the land appear to be O.K. with that.“There’s been a major, subtle shift in college football in the last five years that the elite schools are using to their advantage,” said Gary Danielson, a CBS Sports analyst. “Crowded depth charts are no longer a hindrance to recruiting.”Brandon Huffman, the national recruiting editor for 247Sports, a high school scouting site, pointed to Rashaan Evans as a vital precedent. A linebacker ranked No. 1 in his high school class at the position, he forsook offers from elite programs where he would have started immediately and chose Alabama, where he did not start until the College Football Playoff of his junior season. After his senior year, Evans was a first-round N.F.L. draft pick in 2018.Future prospects notice such developments, Huffman said. They see that paying their dues for a couple of years at Alabama and starting only a season or two can be worthwhile down the line.“That,” Huffman said, “is why Alabama does what Alabama does.”Deionte Thompson, a first-team All-American safety who did not start until his junior season, said he had chosen Alabama because he came “from a winning background” and did not want to be “someplace where I was miserable losing.”“I was able to grow so much during the time from me not being a starter to me being a full-time starter now,” he said. “I wouldn’t trade a moment.”Not surprisingly, Clemson, the other dominant program of the College Football Playoff era, also hogs talent, creating depth rivaled only by Alabama’s. At the start of this season, Clemson replaced its starting quarterback, a senior who led the team to a conference title and a playoff berth last season, with a freshman: Trevor Lawrence, who by some measures is considered the highest-ranked recruit ever.“Those top programs, you’re going to have competition,” said Joey King, who was Lawrence’s high school coach in Georgia. “I’ve always been leery of coaches who guarantee them a chance to play. Offer them a chance to compete. That’s what Trevor wanted.”For Saban and Alabama, the most dramatic jettisoning of an established player happened during last year’s national championship game.Held scoreless through halftime, Alabama’s offense trotted out its backup quarterback — a true freshman, no less — to replace Jalen Hurts for the second half. He proceeded to throw three touchdown passes, and the Crimson Tide won in overtime. It was as if Saban had spent the entire season giving minimal playing time to this reserve, a slinging southpaw named Tua Tagovailoa, on a dare.Now Alabama players know that even a two-year starting quarterback like Hurts is not safe, not even in the middle of his second consecutive national championship game. They also know that should Tagovailoa struggle Monday night, Saban will turn to Hurts, as he did during the Southeastern Conference title game last month. Hurts came in for a struggling and injured Tagovailoa and led Alabama to a come-from-behind victory.Because Hurts, a junior, completed his bachelor’s degree last month, he could transfer after this season and play immediately elsewhere. Crimson Tide fans need not worry. The new backups to Tagovailoa, the runner-up for the Heisman Trophy, will most likely include the fifth- and eighth-highest ranked prostyle quarterbacks among high school seniors, including Tagovailoa’s younger brother.Alabama has made countless other substitutions that have barely been noticed, because of how seamless they were.Take the two players whose injuries so agitated Saban in August. The right tackle, Matt Womack, was a rising junior, and his two replacements, Alex Leatherwood and Jedrick Wills, were five- and four-star recruits, ranked first and eighth in their class. They have been useful contributors on Alabama’s second-ranked offense.And Chris Allen’s injury could have depleted Alabama’s depth at linebacker. Except the starting unit is monstrously talented, and the backups include a former walk-on who has been with the program nearly six years, as well as a four-star recruit who is a redshirt junior. As for the future, the freshman linebacker Eyabi Anoma is rated as Alabama’s fourth-best recruit ever (Julio Jones, the Atlanta Falcons’ star receiver, is No. 3).How does Alabama do it? The trick seems to be having no trick at all: telling prospects that they will receive the opportunity only to compete, but not necessarily to play.“He’s not a big promise guy,” Billy Napier, the Louisiana-Lafayette coach who spent four seasons overseeing Alabama’s wide receivers, said of Saban. “He’s very crystal-clear about expectations.”According to Alabama coaches, recruiting this way produces a virtuous cycle. Players are inspired by the knowledge that they will see elite competition not only against other teams 12 or 15 days a year, but also every day in practice.“The amount of work relative to the amount of competition is a huge margin,” Napier said. “There’s a year-round plan for player development, often about how you practice against competition behind or in front of you at your position. Accountability and responsibility goes with that. Here comes a new wave of 45 players every year that are the most talented in the country, so there’s no room for complacency.”Tosh Lupoi, the co-defensive coordinator, said that Alabama “can only put 11 individuals out there. Those individuals are going to be the best players for that specific package.”Fighting to be one of those 11, even more than the games themselves, “is the ultimate stage of competition,” Lupoi added. “And I think that helps us perform on Saturdays.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLoose EndsYou’ll never have to ask “What’s the Super Bowl?” again.By Sarah HuttoMs. Hutto is a comedian who writes for Reductress, McSweeney's and The New Yorker. She's been making daisy chains in the outfield since the late ‘70s.Roller derby is for when you want to get hurt while wearing fishnets, but also go in circles.Horseback riding is for if you never got over getting too big to ride your dog without hurting its back.Football is moshing in shiny pants without music while wearing helmets.Skydiving is for people who sort of want to stay alive, but also sort of don’t.Softball is that thing when you sit in a field, talking to a leaf, before a ball eventually rolls by you and then everyone is yelling for some reason.Baseball was invented by people from Boston who needed something to hit their bats with when they weren’t vandalizing cars.Karate is where you put hyper kids when you’re not ready to put them on medication.CrossFit is what you talk about when your pyramid scheme fails.Archery is for when you like to shoot at stuff, but also can walk up a flight of stairs without getting winded.Hunting is for when you kill your own food, except that most of your food is Cheetos.Golf is that thing when you already died a long time ago, but still want to walk around in the grass insulting your friends.Jogging is how you tell people in cars that you’re better than them, but secretly hate yourself.Bicycling is how you get to work if you’re a 14-year-old cashier, or 40 and had a bad divorce lawyer.Hiking is for when you want to be closer to nature, but also have a TV movie made about you because you died in it.Skiing is like if you only want one bumper sticker on your SUV that you don’t know how to park, but you don’t want to be political, so it just says “Sugarbush.”Hockey is what you take up when you can’t afford anesthesia for a filling.Racecar driving is that thing of drinking water out of a hat during a police chase in a funnel.Snorkeling is for people who like to upset fish, but not kill them.Fishing is for people who like to upset fish, and immediately kill them.Tennis is for couples to take up briefly before finally just going to marriage counseling.Yoga is for telling strangers that you can do missionary position, and also, like, eight of the other ones. (Ten if you have that squishy wedge thingie.)Boating gives you a place to live when you get kicked out of the house for your drinking.Skateboarding is for when you like to scare pedestrians, but also get hit by a car eventually.Surfing is actually pretty kick-ass.Sarah Hutto (@huttopian) is a comedian who writes for Reductress, McSweeney's and The New Yorker.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellThe corruptions of American college sports and the status anxieties of the wealthy have achieved a spectacular commingling, as a federal indictment on Tuesday charged that N.C.A.A. coaches were paid to fix admissions for rich children at elite colleges and universities, like Georgetown, Yale and U.S.C.An entrepreneur devised this ingenious scam less than a decade ago, and it involved multiple fixes, a sort of corruption minuet. Parents with cash to burn could pay to have a test taker sit in on the SAT or ACT in place of their teenagers. And if their children’s grades too were not up to snuff, they could bribe coaches to accept them as fake tennis, soccer and water polo prodigies.The entry price for bribes often ran toward figures that meant this was no scheme for hoi polloi tennis dads. The bribe paying parents were weighted toward well-known actors, financiers and high-end designers. The ringleaders offered an additional service: If parents paid yet more money they could make children believe their test scores were real.[Read more about the actresses, business leaders and other wealthy parents charged in the college admissions scandal.] So the Henriquez family (Manuel, the father, is chairman and chief executive of a publicly traded finance company) conspired to fix their daughter’s SAT, according to federal documents specifying the charges. Then, as the family had its gaze fixed on Georgetown University, they conspired with Gordon Ernst, the school’s tennis coach, to palm off their daughter as a tennis player.She was helped to put together an application that was long on tales of struggle. I’ve played all summer. I grind out three and four hour a day workouts. I have a top 50 ranking in the USTA Junior Girls Tennis, and I’m looking forward to being part of the team and so on and on, and all of it was fabricated. At the end, the college coach simply told the admissions office: “Potential spot.”Over the following year, the Henriquez Family Trust donated $400,000 to a foundation that in turn paid Ernst $950,000 for handling the Henriquez daughter and several other faux tennis recruits.This is splendid work if your olfactory senses are not troubled by the stench of corruption.This scandal has had the salutary effect too of exploding what remains of upper middle class and wealthy self-righteousness about the grubby ways of the college sports in the basketball and football divisions. A year and a half back, F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors arrested assistant coaches and sneaker company fixers and pointed the finger at A.A.U. coaches and coaches who made payments to star players.This, we were told, was unacceptable, a corruption that must be stamped out.Unacceptable in this context meant, I suppose, a working class family and their son accepting $55,000 from an assistant coach at a large university that stands to make millions of dollars marketing their son while legally paying him nothing.The wealthy already engage in much so-called acceptable board-tilting. Rich families routinely make contributions of millions of dollars to elite colleges in hopes of ensuring that admissions offices welcomed their children’s applications. More recently, as this scandal makes clear, families tried to ensure that their sons and daughters would be psychologically evaluated in such a way that allowed them to receive many extra hours to complete high pressure admissions tests to high school and college. It was the genius of this scandal’s mastermind that he found a way to combine that dodge with a subterfuge that allowed ringers to actually take those tests.“Most of these kids don’t even have issues, but they’re getting time,” the ringleader explained to a parent. “The playing field is not fair.”The F.B.I. transcript revealed no parent who protested this accounting. Let’s read the transcript as Gordon R. Caplan, co-chairman of the top law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, talks of fixing his teenager’s test scores.“It’s just, to be honest, I’m not worried about the moral issue here,” he said.This scandal is intriguing for a final reason. There is much gnashing and grinding of teeth these days over admission to elite schools, ranging from preferential admissions for black and Latino students to whether Asian-American students constitute a too large part of the student body.This scandal reminds us that well-to-do families have long known of a back door. As the writer Saahil Desai pointed out in a fine piece for Atlantic Magazine last autumn, sports at elite colleges, from sailing to golf, tennis to lacrosse, are disproportionately filled with the children of the white wealthy. Many of these sports require that families spend upward of $1,000 per month during high school. Some 65 percent of the Ivy League athletes are white, and as the writer noted, this already constitutes a “quiet sort of affirmative action for affluent white kids.”These particular corrupt families used these doors to illegally gain entry for their well-privileged children. That is wrong, but it points to another way in which even well meaning wealthy parents can game the system.“These parents are a catalog of wealth and privilege,” U.S. Attorney Andrew Lelling said Tuesday. “This case is about the widening corruption of elite college admissions.”For once, he might have added, the coaches are but corrupt handmaids.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)If you’ve been following the college admissions scandal, you’ll recall that one of the alleged schemes carried out by William Singer, the figure at the center of the investigation, and the parents he worked for, was faking standardized test results.But if you’ve ever taken a college-entrance exam — with all the attendant security precautions — you may be wondering how that would actually work. My colleague, Jennifer Medina, recently went to a West Hollywood school to find out: On an early morning in June 2017 a teenage girl got on a plane in San Jose and flew to Los Angeles, arriving at a testing center in West Hollywood to take a college-entrance exam.Her parents, Elizabeth and Manuel Henriquez, a Silicon Valley hedge fund manager, had handpicked the testing site.While most students take their entrance exams at large public high schools near their homes, the Henriquezes chose a private institution, the West Hollywood College Preparatory School.It was one of two testing sites where Mr. Singer cultivated relationships with test administrators who would accept bribes, according to court documents. For $10,000 per test, and sometimes more, the documents say, Igor Dvorskiy ensured that students could be given answers from the proctor.Federal prosecutors say that’s what happened when the Henriquezes’ daughter arrived.On a visit this week, nothing at the school suggested it was the site of one of the biggest testing scandals in decades. It is tucked inside a small building of a large old synagogue. The entrance to the school is a solitary white door with a small blue sign emblazoned with its name.The school’s website describes it as offering a “‘cradle-to-college’ education by providing a family-like nurturing academic environment with small class sizes.” Mr. Dvorskiy is listed as the director of the school.The court documents make clear that federal investigators closely monitored the school for several months, tracking Ms. Dvorskiy on the days of the college entrance exams with Mr. Singer’s clients.Typically, Mr. Singer would tell his clients “fabricate a reason — such as a bar mitzvah or a wedding — that their children purportedly needed to take the test in Houston or West Hollywood instead of at their own schools,” according to court documents.“The extent of the fraud that took place at this testing center should be a major red flag to the College Board,” said Alexis Redding, a visiting scholar at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who has studied college admissions. “There has always been tremendous variability in the quality and professionalism of testing sites and that opens the door for cheating to occur. Students tend to know which sites have inattentive proctors or lax policies.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• As college consulting expands and more parents pay for outside advice, what role should high school counselors play? It’s becoming harder to draw the line: One counselor in Irvine estimated that 15 to 20 percent of seniors at his school hired outside help. [The New York Times]• Experts disagree about whether the parents accused of paying bribes to get their children into selective colleges will face time behind bars. They could make deals that would allow them to get community service and probation. Or prosecutors may want to make an example. [The Associated Press]• Powerhouse research institutions in California like U.C. Berkeley and U.C. San Diego are among a growing number that are cutting ties with Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant that has been accused of spying and secretly doing Beijing’s bidding. The company had been a major donor. [The Los Angeles Times]• A U.C. Berkeley student who worked for the Cal football team is alleging she was sexually harassed by coaches and players. The university says it’s investigating the claims, which were first posted on social media. [The Mercury News]• Disney is now, well, the exact opposite of a mouse. With the closing of its $71.3 billion acquisition of 21st Century Fox assets, the Walt Disney Company goes from behemoth to colossus. And it needs to be, in order to stay alive in a world dominated by big tech. [The New York Times]• Now, layoffs have begun at Twentieth Century Fox, and in a surprise move, Disney said it would close Fox 2000, the label under Fox known for mid-budget features like “Hidden Figures,” “Walk the Line” and “The Devil Wears Prada.” [The Hollywood Reporter]• Hi Duk Lee, the businessman who started L.A.’s Koreatown with a restaurant and market that became gathering places for the city’s growing Korean community, has died. [L.A. Taco]• You might be getting bitten by mosquitoes earlier in the season in the Sacramento area. Here’s why. [The Sacramento Bee]• While Facebook and Twitter have promoted efforts to combat misinformation, hate and conspiracy theories, that content has flourished on Instagram meme accounts, where teens and kids are exposed to the ideas through algorithmic daisy chains. [The Atlantic]• In all the debate about affirmative action and admission to elite universities, there’s one group that is consistently forgotten: low-income Asian-Americans. [The Washington Post Magazine]• Anh Do, a Los Angeles Times journalist, grew up bundling editions of the Nguoi Viet Daily News, the newspaper her father founded that both traced and helped build a Vietnamese community in America. After 40 years, she remembers its legacy. [The Los Angeles Times]Now that it’s spring, some of us have gotten colds or the flu or had reactions to allergies. Hopefully you’re not one of them. But even if you’re feeling fit as a fiddle, may this weekend recommendation from Tejal Rao, The Times’s California restaurant critic, bring you comfort: I didn’t know I suffered from seasonal allergies until this week, when pockets of Los Angeles kicked into bloom and a fine layer of yellow pollen settled on my car. Between sniffles and sneezes, I find myself dreaming of one place in particular: Nyum Bai in Oakland.The cup of prahok ktiss, a dip of pork belly and coconut milk, slick with fragrant oil, layered with the flavors of fermented fish paste, would be just the thing to snack on today with a whole basket of crunchy vegetables. And the comforting, balanced broth of the kuy teav phnom penh would make for a steadying dinner.The chef, Nite Yun, is Cambodian, and fled the Khmer Rouge with her family as a child — Mayukh Sen wrote about her and the restaurant here, if you’d like to read more.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIf they’re not held accountable at school, what’s to stop them from becoming the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story once they enter the work force? By Alyssa LeaderMs. Leader is a law student and activist.As a student at Harvard, I reported a sexual assault by a classmate to the university. After a six-month investigation that ended after I graduated, I received a decision from the administrative board. The board voted to “scratch,” a term defined in the administrative board’s handbook. “Nothing wrong occurred,” it reads. “There are no grounds for action.”College students who endure sexual assault and sexual harassment have long been frustrated by anemic responses from their schools, which too often echo that message: “Nothing wrong occurred.” A new rule that Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has proposed — and which the public can comment on through Wednesday —  would make a bad situation even worse by all but demolishing the obligation of schools under Title IX to protect students who experience sexual harassment, including sexual assault. As the #MeToo movement continues to empower survivors of assault and harassment in various professions to speak out, we should worry not only about the effects of this proposed change on campuses, but also about the related price women will pay after graduation. I fear — and research suggests — that the campus predators whom schools fail to hold accountable today may go on to become the abusive bosses of tomorrow.[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.]I have cautiously hoped that the accountability the #MeToo movement has brought to the workplace would trickle into university life. But instead, at the very time people like Harvey Weinstein and R. Kelly have begun to face consequences for their behavior, Ms. DeVos is pushing to roll back the Title IX guidance that assaulted and harassed students depend on to seek justice. Among other changes, her proposed rule would require schools to dismiss all incidents that do not meet an extremely narrow definition of sexual harassment: “so severe, pervasive and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access” to education. As Dana Bolger, a co-founder of Know Your IX, a national youth-led campaign against sexual violence, has pointed out, some courts have ruled that a rape does not meet this standard. The rule would essentially eliminate schools’ responsibility to respond to incidents off campus, which make up 95 percent of sexual assaults of female students, according to the Department of Justice. Moreover, schools would not be legally responsible for addressing any sexual harassment that is not reported to a school official designated to deal with that issue. The overall effect of the proposed rule — which supporters say would restore due-process rights to those accused of sexual assault and harassment — would be to make reporting, already an uphill battle for raped and harassed students, feel even more futile. Carly Mee, who represents survivors of school sexual violence as a senior staff lawyer at SurvJustice, told me, “It is completely illogical that at a time when the public is finally coming to terms with the reality of how prevalent sexual violence is thanks to initiatives like Tarana Burke’s #MeToo movement, the DeVos administration is simultaneously attempting to weaken Title IX protections for survivors.”It’s safe to assume that most perpetrators of sexual violence who have come to public notice through #MeToo didn’t suddenly become abusers after landing jobs in newsrooms and board rooms and on movie sets. Their idea that one can abuse with impunity is learned, and in many cases it is learned where most things are learned — at school. Violent sexual behavior that goes unchecked during college does not reach a natural end at graduation. In fact, many perpetrators of sexual violence are serial offenders: Of men who acknowledge using sexually violent or coercive behaviors, around one in five report committing repeat assaults. Another study found that men reporting a history of sexually aggressive behavior commit, on average, more than six sexual assaults. Examples of school perpetrators who skirted accountability and then offended after graduation are already emerging. Jameis Winston, who was accused of rape as a student at Florida State University and is now a professional football player, reached a settlement with an Uber driver who said he sexually assaulted her in her car in 2016.But the path from perpetrator of school sexual violence to workplace abuser need not be inevitable. Interventions including cognitive behavioral therapy have proved to be highly effective in preventing perpetrators from reoffending. Far from being unfair, responding seriously to perpetrators of school sexual violence is tough kindness. As the world grows increasingly intolerant of violent sexual behavior, early intervention and clear messages about appropriate behavior can prevent perpetrators from reoffending and facing more long-term career, legal and personal consequences.But the first step in effectively intervening must be more, not less, accountability. Ms. Mee suggests that Ms. DeVos should begin by devising policies responsive to school survivors’ needs. “The public conversations going on right now need to translate into action,” Ms. Mee told me. “Those in power have a responsibility to listen to the stories being told and use this momentum to improve the system through which survivors seek justice, not weaken them even further.” If they don’t, they risk emboldening perpetrators who offended in early in life to continue abusing the women in the workplace. I took the unusual step of suing Harvard for its handling of my case and was unsuccessful. The judge dismissed the Title IX claim because of her determination that the university was not “deliberately indifferent.” But as I’ve learned as a student activist, I’m far from alone in my experience of seeing a man accused of sexual assault assured by a college that his actions were not out of bounds — and wondering what that means for the women who will encounter him in the future. While I obtained a restraining order against the man who assaulted me in college, he graduated and got a coveted job, where he’ll only have more and more power as time goes on. While I hope he’ll never become the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story, I am not optimistic. The proposed rules make it even more likely that men like him will leave their college campuses and enter the work force believing they can abuse women and be assured “Nothing wrong occurred.”Alyssa Leader is a second-year law student at the University of North Carolina.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Katharine Q. SeelyeCarrie Ann Lucas, who championed people, especially parents, with disabilities and won a major lawsuit to make Kmart more accessible, died on Sunday in Loveland, Colo. She was 47.Her sister, Courtney Lucas, said the cause was complications of septic shock.Ms. Lucas, who lived with a rare form of muscular dystrophy for three decades, was an effective advocate for people with disabilities. A lawyer, she successfully forced several businesses to make their premises more accessible in accordance with the Americans With Disabilities Act.And last year, through her forceful lobbying, she helped change Colorado law to ensure that the disability of a parent or potential guardian could not be the sole basis for denying custody, adoption, foster care or guardianship of a child.The legislation grew out of her own struggle to adopt her niece, who was in foster care. Ms. Lucas, who used a power wheelchair, breathed through a ventilator, had low vision and minimal hearing, and relied on a feeding tube, went on to adopt a total of four children, all with disabilities.“We hear things all the time like, ‘How can you be a parent if you can’t throw a football for your son?’ ” she told The Colorado Independent in 2016.“As disabled people,” she said, “we are always addressing the issue of how society devalues our lives and experiences.”On Monday, members of both the House and Senate of the Colorado legislature paid tribute to Ms. Lucas and held a moment of silence in her honor. “Carrie Ann Lucas is a testament to doing everything that you can with what you’ve got,” State Senator Julie Gonzales said.Ms. Lucas’s commitment was evident in her relentless campaign against a measure to allow doctor-assisted suicide (sometimes called “right to die” or “death with dignity”) in Colorado. An active member of the disability rights group Not Dead Yet, she appeared at numerous forums to express her outrage at what she saw as the implicit suggestion that people with disabilities had such a low quality of life that their lives were not worth living.Despite her protestations, voters approved the measure in 2016. Doctor-assisted death is now legal in seven states and the District of Columbia.It was a rare defeat in a long career of advocacy. Perhaps her most notable legal victory came in a class-action lawsuit against Kmart, to make its stores more accessible.Ms. Lucas was the lead plaintiff in that suit, filed in 1999, and in a settlement in 2006, Kmart agreed to pay $13 million in damages to shoppers — the largest payout in a disabilities case at the time — and to bring its 1,400 stores into compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act. Kmart agreed to spend as much as $70 million over eight years to do so.Carrie Ann Lucas was born on Nov. 18, 1971, in Twentynine Palms, Calif. Her mother, LaVerne (Rupert) Lucas, was a sales manager; her father, Philip Emory Lucas, served in the Marine Corps for 20 years and was stationed at the base there. When he retired, the family moved to Windsor, Colo., where he was an appliance repair technician.Carrie Ann graduated from high school in Windsor and went to Whitworth University in Spokane, Wash., graduating in 1994 with a double major in education and sports medicine.While in high school, she began to lose muscle strength, and by age 17 she was walking with braces. She was in a wheelchair by her early 20s.Still, she went overseas. She taught middle school science for two years in Saipan, part of the Northern Marianas in the Western Pacific. Her goal was to become a minister, and when she returned to Colorado she earned a master of divinity degree at Iliff School of Theology in Denver in 1999.As her health deteriorated, her sister said, she became involved with the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, which works for equal rights for people with any kind of disability. She investigated and monitored disability rights cases there.At the same time, she sought to adopt her niece, Heather, then 9, the disabled daughter of her half brother, Eric Gover, whose family, in Tennessee, was unable to care for her. But because of her own disabilities, Ms. Lucas ran into resistance.She fought the system and, with the help of a court-appointed special advocate, was able to adopt Heather. The experience inspired her to make sure that the same thing would not happen in Colorado.Driven by the prejudice she saw against parents with disabilities, Ms. Lucas enrolled at the Sturm College of Law at the University of Denver, where she received a full scholarship. She graduated in 2005 and went on to adopt three more children, Asiza, Adrianne and Anthony, all of whom have disabilities.Ms. Lucas was executive director of Disabled Parents Rights and served on the board of directors of the American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado. In 2017, she ran unsuccessfully for a seat on the Windsor City Council.She was among several people with disabilities who were arrested in 2017 on charges of trespassing after a 58-hour sit-in at the Denver office of Senator Cory Gardner. They were protesting the Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which would have reduced Medicaid funding and eliminated services that make it possible for people with disabilities to live independently.In addition to her sister, her half brother and her children, Ms. Lucas is survived by her parents and her partner, Dr. Kimberley Jackson. Her half sister, Kelli Mann, died in 2017.For the last several years, Ms. Lucas had been writing a blog, DisabilityPride.com, which provided an unvarnished view of her life.One of her final entries, the day after Christmas, described her fear of what would happen to her children, now in their late teens and 20s, when she was gone. She said she hoped that she had given them “the tools to thrive if given appropriate supports.” But, she added, she was terrified that they would be separated and lose contact with one another.“My kids are all adopted and lost their first family,” she wrote. “I desperately don’t want them to lose this family too.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHarold Haliday Costain photographs the sugar and salt industries; Karl Haendel creates artistic punch lines; and Lynette Yiadom-Boakye ignites the unexpected.Through Jan. 26. Keith de Lellis Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, Suite 703, Manhattan; 212-327-1482, keithdelellisgallery.com.These days, when an American brand wants to drum up publicity, it offers some free swag to Instagram micro-celebrities, happy to prettify their performed  “real life” with whatever product comes their way. A century ago, it was safer to call up an artist. Harold Haliday Costain (1897—1994), trained as an illustrator, became one of the most adroit commercial photographers of the 1930s — providing American corporations with a bold, modern image that appeared nearly heroic in the years of the Depression.“Sugar & Salt: Vintage Industrial Photographs by Harold Haliday Costain,” at this photography space in the gallery-rich Fuller Building, includes two suites of his crisp, propulsive images of American industry. In 1934, he was commissioned by the International Salt Company to photograph its operations in Avery Island, La.; there Costain turned his camera on an angle to shoot vigorous views of a bare-armed laborer handling a hulking metal wheel, or a pristine metal helix grinding its way through evaporated salt. He also used lamps and spotlights to produce a dramatic view of a worker beneath a towering cliff of salt, so denuded and striated it appears almost like a lunar landscape. The photos of salt ran in the fledgling Fortune magazine; “a white thread through history’s tapestry,” wrote the magazine’s overawed reporter.Costain brought the same high-velocity modernism — skewed angles, high contrast, shifting depth of field — to photographs he took the next year of the facilities of the National Sugar Refining Company in New York and New Jersey. Hundreds of sacks of sugar tower over a worker, recalling levees or even sandbags fronting the trenches of the Great War. A woman on the assembly line looks on beneficently as boxes charge diagonally across the composition. Far from the cautious boosterism of contemporary annual reports, these sugar photos bear a strong resemblance to Soviet photography of the period, by the likes of Boris Ignatovich and Vsevolod Tarasevich. That such similar imagery could advertise such divergent economic systems attests to the slipperiness of photographic style — and to the importance of looking past surfaces, even on the feeds of buffed-to-shine Instagrammers. JASON FARAGOThrough Feb. 16. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, Manhattan; 212-744-7400, miandn.com.A good conceptual art piece is not very different from a joke, and Karl Haendel’s got a million of ’em. His show “Masses & Mainstream,” at Mitchell-Innes & Nash, is a torrent of pencil drawings large and small, and all of them revolve, in one way or another, around the artist’s ability to make anything in the world into a kind of punch line merely by pointing it out.There are old-fashioned gags like “Doorway in a Box,” a framed drawing of a wooden cupboard that sits on two wooden blocks on the floor, and ironic jokes about conceptual art, like the winkingly dumb “Baby With Question Mark.” Jokes that adeptly split the difference include “Richard Nixon’s Childhood Home Annotated by My Daughter” and “Am I Jared Kushner?” The first of these, a meticulous, four-foot-wide drawing of a photograph ornamented with childish doodles, captures the weird disconnect we often feel between public figures and their private lives; the second, simply a cursive list of similarities and differences between the artist and the president’s son-in-law, sounds the very special anger and despair that Mr. Kushner elicits in progressive Jewish men.But it’s the straighter drawings, many of them hugely oversize, that offer the most alluring take on the transformative power of self-conscious looking. In them the viewer has room to appreciate  Mr. Haendel’s relaxed confidence as a draftsman as well as the understated beauty of the found photographs he often uses as source material and of the graphite itself. “Stacked Lawnmowers” pictures four humdrum machines forming an unlikely monolith, and in “Down Box (Football #10),” a dense tangle of football players highlights the sensual appeal of a solid black background. WILL HEINRICHThrough Feb. 16 at Jack Shainman, 513 West 20th Street and 524 West 24th Street, Manhattan; 212-645-1701, jackshainman.com.Lynette Yiadom-Boakye has contributed to the renaissance in painting the black figure and has benefited from it. Her show, “In Lieu of a Louder Love” at both of Jack Shainman’s galleries in Chelsea, follows Charles White’s landmark retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art and a new MoMA publication, “Among Others: Blackness at MoMA,” which includes Ms. Yiadom-Boakye’s work. The game-changing exhibition “Posing Modernity: The Black Model From Manet and Matisse to Today” at the Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University is still on view for a few weeks.Despite this momentum, however, Ms. Yiadom-Boakye, who won top honors at the Carnegie International exhibition last fall, still has room to grow as a painter. Her coffee-brown portraits of fictional people register best as groups, like an arrangement of family portraits. They feature people reading, lounging and resting in traditional poses. Her dark palette and the stillness of the figures gives her work a sense of timelessness that has fast-tracked them into contemporary art history: The work already looks timeworn.The flip side of this, however, is a sense of familiarity and inertness; Her subjects can feel trapped in the canvas rather than liberated by it. The best work here features laughing subjects and a hint of movement. Multiple panels with a female dancer in a white leotard, or a singular canvas with male dancers, suggest something beyond the here and now, a perspective on people, history and looking that you expect painting to elicit.Ms. Yiadom-Boakye’s most impressive effects are weirder though, breaking the ice of her generally conservative approach. When she paints the whites of someone’s eyes in two different hues, or adds a lightning stripe of color along a dark sleeve, she ignites the unexpected. It would be nice to see more of this. MARTHA SCHWENDENERAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEmbracing scouting strategies now common elsewhere and an ambition bigger than its wallet, Racing Club rides a new plan into first place. By Rory SmithAVELLANEDA, Argentina — Partially obscured by a rusting rack of weights, the back wall of the gym at Racing Club’s youth academy has been painted dark blue and daubed with symbols.On one side are four bright, color-coded dots; on the other, four numbered yellow circles. Rising from the floor are two miniature depictions of goal posts, no more than a foot wide; fixed at the top are two hooks, looped with string, a ball hanging from each.Diego Huerta, an assistant at the academy and one of the club’s scouts, walks past with barely a glance, stopping only when he registers the confused looks. At Borussia Dortmund, he explains, the academy boasts a Footbonaut, a futuristic piece of training equipment designed to improve speed of thought and skill of execution. Standing inside a cage, Dortmund players receive a ball every few seconds. Simultaneously, a box on one of the four walls will light up. The player must swivel, fire the ball into the correct box, and then be ready to receive the next pass.Dortmund is one of just two clubs in the world to have one; T.S.G. Hoffenheim is the other. Coaches believe that two or three minutes inside the Footbonaut can have the same impact as multiple training sessions, but it does not come cheap: Each machine costs from $2 million to $4 million, and requires updates to the software that runs it.That price tag is way beyond Racing’s means. It is working with a local software developer on a pared-down, budget-friendly equivalent, but in the meantime, its answer, adapted for the realities and restrictions of the game in Argentina, includes the dots and circles painted on the weight room walls, the soccer balls hanging from strings. “This,” Huerta said, “is our version.”The same ethos is struck through everything Racing does. Like all of Argentina’s traditional powerhouses, this is a club conscious of its history. The walls of the cafe at the academy are lined with images of former stars; half of the room is given over to an extensive timeline of the club’s achievements, from the swath of championships it claimed in the early part of the 20th century to its first Copa Libertadores success, in 1967.That year, it became the first Argentine team to win the Intercontinental Cup, beating the European champion, Glasgow Celtic, over two bad-tempered legs. It has styled itself “el primer grande” — the first of Argentina’s great clubs — ever since.Unusually, though, Racing is not beholden to that history, or content to be swaddled by its traditions. Argentina’s biggest clubs are run as social institutions, in which members vote for presidents every few years. The system is cherished as a bulwark against corporate creep, a way of ensuring that clubs’ identities are not leveraged to the highest bidder, but it can make them cumbersome and conservative, structurally resistant to change.In that context, Racing stands out as a bastion of innovation. It is not just the homemade Footbonaut. It is the support available to the 55 boys who live at the club’s academy, far in advance of what most of their peers in Argentina would be offered, ranging from social workers and psychologists to academic tutors. It is the approach to player development, centering less on results and more on individual progress. Most of all, it is the work done in a small, subterranean office in the parking lot of the club’s stadium.Here, Javier Weiner’s team of four scouts, including Huerta, sits at a bank of four desks, each one dominated by an iMac. The scouts scour games from Argentina’s lower leagues and a handful of South American countries on Wyscout, a content platform that streams action from across the world.Each scout has an area to cover: Weiner takes Argentina and Colombia; Huerta monitors youth soccer and Venezuela.Using the analytics service InStat, they compile dossiers on potential acquisitions, drawing together not just raw performance data but also players’ psychological, emotional and medical backgrounds. They track information from journalists on social media.Most clubs of this scale in Europe, North America and Asia would see this work as standard now; in Argentina, it is all but revolutionary. “Most of the time, it is the head coach who recruits players, or the president, with the help of a few agents,” Huerta said. “There is no process: Everything changes constantly. And there are times when crucial decisions are made by someone who does not know anything about football.”Racing, however, is determined to be “another type of club,” Weiner said. “We have to be creative,” he said. “We have to have a network that means we can get players before bigger clubs because financially we cannot compete with River Plate and Boca Juniors.”The mastermind behind that plan for the future is one of the towering figures from Racing’s past. His image hangs from not one poster, but two, in the hall at the academy.Diego Milito won two Argentine titles with Racing as a player, though most of his success came in Italy, where he was the attacking spearhead of José Mourinho’s treble-winning Inter Milan team. He returned to his boyhood team to see out his career in 2014. After retiring, in 2016, he was appointed Racing’s technical secretary, an equivalent to a director of football role.Milito’s goal, Huerta said, was to “make Racing a champion again.” He is on the cusp of doing just that: Racing sits atop Argentina’s Superleague, a first title since 2014 inching ever closer. Its journey, though, directed by Milito, has been unorthodox.“All the time Milito was in Europe, he saw how they were working, and he tried to adapt some of the ideas he found,” Huerta said. Scouting was central to that. One of Milito’s first appointments was Weiner, who had been working with his father, Gabriel, on his “mobile technical unit”: a freelance scouting operation, effectively, that carried out project work for European and North American clubs. “We had been commissioned by Bayer Leverkusen, Udinese, Chicago Fire and a few others,” Javier Weiner said. A Racing fan, he leapt at the chance to sign up permanently when Milito asked. Huerta’s route was a little different. A journalist by training, he spent four years working at Clarín, Argentina’s biggest news outlet, before starting to work with Martí Perarnau, once an Olympian for Spain and now a prolific journalist, author and the biographer of Pep Guardiola.Huerta’s connection with Perarnau allowed him to visit several of Europe’s most progressive clubs. “I talked to people from Dortmund, Sevilla, Barcelona, Olympique Marseille,” he said. “I went to watch Zinedine Zidane while he was coaching Real Madrid’s reserve team. I had read ‘Soccernomics’ and ‘Moneyball.’ I had some ideas on how to run a club.”He started doing video analysis and statistics work for Racing. When Milito arrived, he spotted Huerta’s gift for languages and recruited him into his inner circle. He now acts as a bridge between the scouting operation, the first team and the academy. “We did not have a structure before,” Huerta said. “Now we have a clear vision of what we want the club to be.”The best parallel he can find is with one of those clubs he visited on his tour of Europe: Sevilla, a team that has built sustained modern success among much bigger rivals by recruiting well and selling better.Racing has always had a reputation for youth development — the club is known, in Argentina, as La Academia — and that remains central to Milito’s plan. In his office at the academy, Huerta keeps a map of all the areas of Argentina where he has searched for talent.There has never been any shortage of that, of course — “Switzerland knows how to make watches, and we make players,” the grizzled academy director Miguel Gomis said — but there is a belief, too, that it can be done more effectively, more reliably.“We do not see the mistakes we make because no matter how badly we do things, players come through,” Gomis said.There is a focus, now, not on “training talent” — the endless slew of creative, attacking players that Argentina is famous for — but on “positions of concept,” the more defensive, more cerebral roles. “We want to create the players that Racing needs,” said Claudio Úbeda, a coach at the academy. “But also the players that Europe wants.”Racing is looking further afield than any of its rivals for that raw material. It is, Huerta said, often the only Argentine team that sends scouts to international youth tournaments. It has started to recruit players from Colombia, Peru and Venezuela.Just as significant, it has “formalized,” as Weiner put it, the other end of the process. “I remember seeing a couple of tall, blond guys in the crowd at one game,” Weiner said. “It turned out they were scouts from F.C. Copenhagen, in Denmark. There was nobody to help them get tickets to watch a player, so they just ended up behind the goal. We have changed that now.”So new that there remains some suspicion about it. The concept of scouting remains alien to some. Huerta is regularly asked by colleagues from other teams why he is bothering to watch lower tier games or follow players from Venezuela. There are skeptics within the club, too; Milito’s revolution has not been entirely peaceful. Change does not come easily, even with such a potent figurehead. The team he has built, though, has the courage of its convictions. Racing can see the future; or its own, homemade version of it, at least.Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.  @RorySmith AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — President Trump, seeking to shore up his base of support in rural America, promised farmers on Monday that “the greatest harvest is yet to come” and insisted that the pain they were experiencing from his economic policies would ultimately make them better off.In a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation at its annual convention in New Orleans, Mr. Trump asked farmers to be patient as he tried to rewrite trade agreements with China, Europe, Canada and Mexico and as he battled with congressional Democrats over immigration.The president’s policies have caused problems for the farming industry, which was already struggling with higher commodity costs, stiff retaliatory tariffs and loss of access to some markets as a result of Mr. Trump’s trade fight with other nations. Farmers are now dealing with a freeze on certain types of government-backed loans, subsidy payments and other federal services as a result of the protracted partial government shutdown, which has entered its fourth week.“No one understands better than our great farmers that the tough choices we make today reap rewards for centuries to come,” Mr. Trump said.In a stemwinder that touched on immigration policy, news media criticism and the importance of standing for the national anthem at football games, Mr. Trump told farmers that the benefits of trade deals that have not been finalized were already being realized.In reality, the president’s trade agenda remains in flux, and he has yet to secure pivotal trade agreements with Europe, Japan, China and other countries that could determine whether he is able to keep his pledge to enrich the United States’ agricultural workers by cutting better deals.On Monday, Mr. Trump painted a rosy picture for farmers who are facing a difficult year ahead as the American economy faces a slowdown and as an array of complicated trade negotiations remain unresolved.Mr. Trump declared that his talks with China were going well, that farmers would soon see open access to China’s vast market and that they would be protected from what he described as efforts by the Chinese to illicitly acquire their intellectual property for seeds and other products. The scope of any China deal remains murky, however, as deep divisions remain between the two countries, which face a March 2 deadline to reach an agreement. Failure to broker a deal would cause the Trump administration to raise tariffs further on Chinese imports, escalating a trade war that has already rattled markets and provided a drag on the global economy.The president also praised his get-tough approach with Europe, explaining that he was in the process of overhauling a trade relationship with the European Union that he said was unfair because it did not allow American farmers to sell enough chicken, cheese, beef and other agricultural products to European countries.“They treat our farmers terribly,” Mr. Trump said, trumpeting his lack of popularity in Europe. “They don’t want your product.”Yet despite the suggestion that his approach would secure more access to Europe for American farmers, Europe’s top trade negotiator, Cecilia Malmstrom, made clear to American officials last week on a visit to Washington that any trade agreement would be limited to industrial goods. The European Union’s member states have not given her the authority to negotiate new terms for agricultural products, a limitation that could prove to be a deal-breaker in any new trade treaty with the United States.The president is also facing resistance at home to the revised trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, which is critical to American farmers. Mr. Trump said that the deal, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, was a boon for American dairy farmers, who would soon face fewer restrictions when selling products into Canada. But the agreement has yet to win congressional approval, and Democrats who now control the House have made clear they are not ready to rubber-stamp the agreement without significant changes.The government shutdown has only exacerbated anxiety among farmers. The trade war had already reduced American farmers’ access to China, a critical market for soybeans, farm equipment and other products, and the industry is struggling with retaliatory tariffs from Europe, Canada and Mexico.To help cushion the blow, Mr. Trump created a $12 billion bailout fund to compensate farmers hurt by the trade war. But that program is on hiatus and payouts are delayed because the Agriculture Department is not being funded during the shutdown.Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for the situation and defended his position that he should not approve funding for the government until lawmakers agree to build a wall along the southwestern border, which he said was essential for keeping the country safe. He did draw applause at one point for striking a softer tone on immigration and insisting that he wants to make it easier for farmers to hire and keep immigrant workers.Even though Mr. Trump professed his love for farmers, his urban roots were at times hard to conceal. The president acknowledged his ignorance about wheat policy when explaining that Canada would soon grade American wheat the same way it grades its own.“Which to me doesn’t mean much,” he said, “but to farmers it means a lot.”At another point, Mr. Trump celebrated his efforts to ease the regulatory burden that farmers face, noting that he rolled back a rule that penalized farmers for having prairie potholes on their land.“Do you all know what prairie potholes are?” he asked a laughing audience. “I don’t, but it sounds bad.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWord of the DayBy The Learning Network1. a person who for some reason is not wanted or welcome2. a diplomat who is unacceptable to the government where assigned_________The term persona non grata has appeared in 30 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Sept. 26 in “Nike Nearly Dropped Colin Kaepernick Before Embracing Him” by Julie Creswell, Kevin Draper and Sapna Maheshwari:Kaepernick ignited a national discourse in 2016 when he began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem before games to protest racism, social inequality and police brutality. He left the 49ers after the 2016 season and became a free agent, but executives throughout the N.F.L. considered him radioactive because of his on-field protests, which drew vocal criticism from President Trump, and no team signed him.That left Nike’s sports marketing group flummoxed. There seemed to be little they could do with a lightning-rod professional football player who was not playing football.… So when Wieden & Kennedy, Nike’s ad agency for more than three decades, urged the company earlier this year to make the N.F.L.’s ultimate persona non grata the face of its “Just Do It” 30th anniversary campaign, Nike had to weigh the potential repercussions._________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by5 PlacesThe NCAA Final Four basketball tournament is in town, and the local chef Brenda Langton serves up five new spots in the Downtown East neighborhood just four blocks away. By Elaine GlusacFrom Downtown East in Minneapolis, it’s only a four-block walk to the U.S. Bank Stadium, the glass-sheathed building that opened in 2016 and is host of the NCAA Final Four basketball tournament from April 6 to 8. The neighborhood is seeing action of its own lately. Beautiful warehouses converted into condos, along with tasteful shops and restaurants, are filling in the once-industrial area. Brenda Langton, the chef and owner of the organic and locally focused Spoonriver restaurant and the founder of the Mill City Farmers Market, both in Downtown East, has seen it all. “It’s a very diverse neighborhood and people come from all over to walk the riverfront in the evening when the lights really make it shine,” she said. Ms. Langton, who was nominated for best restaurateur in 2019 by the James Beard Foundation, shares five new spots in the bustling area.The chef Jamie Malone was last in the neighborhood at the Sea Change restaurant in the Guthrie Theater. Now she’s back at Eastside, turning out oversize dishes like whole roasted duck and pork-stuffed bass for sharing. “I’m so pleased Jamie and her professional team are close by again,” Ms. Langton said. “She throws herself into her work 110 percent and it certainly shows.”305 Washington Avenue South; eastsidempls.comIn addition to a publisher, performance hall and papermaking classes, this literary arts center houses the independent Milkweed Books. “I love, love, love this place,” Ms. Langton said. “The bookstores of our world are dwindling but Open Book makes a real home for literary and book arts.”1011 Washington Avenue South; openbookmn.orgBuilt in 1935 for the Minnesota National Guard, the Armory, a buff-colored stone and brick structure with a vaulted roof, has long been a local landmark. It was once home to the NBA Minneapolis Lakers and the setting for the “1999” music video from Prince, who was a native of Minneapolis. Last year, it reopened as an events venue. “It’s a unique building,” Ms. Langdon said, adding that at 8,400 seats, “it’s a great size for a concert.” Catch footage of Prince projected on the big screen, accompanied by live music, on April 26.500 South 6th Street; armorymn.comSometimes called the Mill District for the flour mills that fronted the river, Downtown East is newly home to this 183-room hotel housed in an early 1900s brick factory, which still has its terra cotta ornaments. “I was so thrilled this building was preserved,” Ms. Langton said. “The juxtaposition of the old buildings with the modern Guthrie here is just beautiful.”708 Third St. South; canopy3.hilton.comFounded in southern Minnesota in 1865, this mill weaves sturdy wool blankets for a new generation of fans of the retro brand, and recently opened its first shop in Downtown East. “I’m thrilled they’re in the neighborhood,” Ms. Langton said, calling the blankets “classic, high quality and warm.”1029 South Washington Avenue; faribaultmill.comFollow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe victory over the Chiefs means Tom Brady and Co. will be playing for the title for the ninth time in the last two decades. By Bill Pennington and Benjamin HoffmanAs Tom Brady led the New England Patriots down the field in the crucible of overtime, there was a familiar sense of inevitability, an atmosphere that was both tense and predictable. These were only the latest minutes in a cavalcade of triumphant overtime postseason Patriots moments that stretch from a snowy game in 2002 to the one played in frigid conditions here Sunday night.More of Brady’s passes failed than succeeded in the overtime period against the Kansas City Chiefs, but all the ones that mattered most were reliably rifled into the arms of his receivers. As the Patriots neared the Chiefs’ goal line, a winning touchdown and a ninth Patriots Super Bowl appearance this century seemed preordained.When running back Rex Burkhead pushed into the end zone with the game-ending touchdown in the Patriots 37-31 victory, Brady began jumping up and down as he turned toward his team’s sideline.In the Patriots’ locker room a short while later, New England wide receiver Julian Edelman, who caught two overtime passes from Brady, said of his quarterback: “There’s no one I’d rather have in two-minute drill than No. 12. It’s in his DNA. He has a clutch gene.”Brady, meanwhile, focused elsewhere.“I’m so tired,” he said. “That was a hell of a game.”The Patriots have played in many such games. In almost every season this decade they stumbled enough that it appeared the long run at the highest level of success must surely be nearing its expiration date. And then there’s another game like Sunday when the Patriots, despite squandering a first half lead, nonetheless held off one of the most potent offenses in the N.F.L. to persevere and qualify for their third consecutive Super Bowl and fifth in the last eight years.New England will play the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII on Feb. 3 in Atlanta — which happens to be the 17th anniversary of New England’s Super Bowl victory over the Rams, who were then based in St. Louis.After a fourth quarter that featured five touchdowns from both teams, the Patriots received the football first in overtime. Brady twice pierced the Chiefs defense with dart-like throws on third down to Edelman to keep the drive alive. Soon the Patriots were at the Kansas City 30-yard line, but two Brady throws — one on a flea-flicker — fell incomplete.On third down, Brady rifled a pass to tight end Rob Gronkowski for 15 yards. Burkhead then carried the football on three successive plays, with the last ending the game.“Overtime, on the road against a great team — they had fight, they had no quit,” Brady said of the Chiefs in an interview with CBS after the game.The Patriots, who ran twice as many plays as the Chiefs did on Sunday, had taken a 24-21 lead late in the fourth quarter on a drive aided by a roughing-the-passer penalty and an 11-yard, one-handed reception by New England wide receiver Chris Hogan. On 4th-and-1 from Kansas City’s 10-yard line, Sony Michel, who had 113 rushing yards, burst through the middle, giving his team a lead with just 3 minutes and 32 seconds left to play.The Chiefs responded quickly, regaining the lead in five plays and less than 90 seconds when a pass interference penalty and a 38-yard pass to wide receiver Sammy Watkins led to a 2-yard touchdown run by Damien Williams.With just over two minutes to play, Brady got the ball and marched his team down the field, with Burkhead bulling into the end zone to put New England ahead, 31-28, with 39 seconds left in the game.Quarterback Patrick Mahomes coolly led the Chiefs back, going 48 yards in just two plays, and with 11 seconds remaining, Kansas City’s kicker, Harrison Butker, sent the game into overtime with a 39-yard field goal that tied the game, 31-31.Kansas City had trailed by 14-0 after the opening two quarters — the first time since Coach Andy Reid took over the team in 2013 that the Chiefs had failed to score in the first half — but the team came out for the third quarter invigorated, scoring a touchdown less than two minutes into the half.It was the Patriots who looked more energized amid frigid temperatures at first. New England opened the game with a 15-play, 80-yard masterpiece of precision and versatility, consistently confusing the Chiefs’ defense and keeping it backpedaling for more than eight consecutive minutes of playing time.The tone of the opening drive was set on the first New England play from scrimmage, when Michel sliced through a gaping hole in the middle of the Kansas City front line for an 11-yard gain.The Patriots stuck to the ground to convert on essential third down plays behind all-purpose running back James White.The Chiefs linebackers began sneaking toward the line of scrimmage, and Brady saw them, changing a play in a pre-snap read and throwing over the middle to Edelman for 14 yards.And so went the cat-and-mouse game, with White’s backfield mate Michel dashing for 11 yards to Kansas City’s 5-yard line. Three plays later, from the 1-yard line, behind crushing blocks by Gronkowski and fullback James Develin, Michel leapt into the end zone for a 7-0 New England lead.After the Chiefs lost six yards on their initial possession, the Patriots’ next drive, which began in Chiefs territory, was nearly as efficient.White plowed through holes in the Chiefs’ defense, and a well-timed shovel pass in the backfield to wide receiver Cordarrelle Patterson gained 15 yards. Edelman caught another pass and soon the Patriots were a yard from the Kansas City goal line again. But on a third down, Brady faked a handoff, bent at the waist to hide the ball and popped up and lofted a quick pass toward the 6-foot-6 Gronkowski breaking across the middle.Brady did not see Chiefs linebacker Reggie Ragland standing in the path of his throw. Ragland made the interception and the Chiefs narrowly avoided falling behind by two touchdowns.But when the Chiefs went on offense, they continued to look out of sync and frustrated. The Patriots were successfully pressuring Mahomes, forcing him to flee the pocket and rush his throws.The Chiefs offense had only one first down near the midpoint of the second quarter when the Patriots appeared to have Mahomes corralled for a sack on a third down play. Mahomes instead slipped a tackle and fired a 12-pass to Watkins.On the next play, the Chiefs’ fastest player, Tyreek Hill, got behind his defender for a 42-yard reception. Suddenly, it was the Patriots defense that seemed to be unsteady, especially on the succeeding play when Williams, the Chiefs running back, was left uncovered as he ran a pass route into the New England end zone.In a costly mistake, Mahomes overthrew the wide open Williams. A sack of Mahomes eventually moved the Chiefs, who would gain just 32 yards offensively in the first half, out of field goal range.On their final possession of the second quarter, Brady connected with White on a 30-yard pass to bring the Patriots within striking distance of the Kansas City end zone. On a second-and-one, Brady pumped faked to his left to draw in Chiefs cornerback Steven Nelson as Patriots wide receiver Phillip Dorsett streaked down the sideline to haul in a 29-yard touchdown pass that gave the Patriots their 14-0 lead at intermission.[The Los Angeles Rams beat the New Orleans Saints, 26-20, in the N.F.C. championship game earlier Sunday, and will face the winner of this game in the Super Bowl. See how they did it here.]Here’s how the Patriots beat the Chiefs, by Benjamin Hoffman:Rex Burkhead surged in from two yards out to get the Patriots a 37-31 victory in overtime, before the Chiefs ever got a chance to possess the ball.Thirty nine seconds was plenty of time for Patrick Mahomes. The second-year quarterback took his team 48 yards on a pair of long passes, and while he wasn’t able to throw a touchdown pass on his third attempt, he had gotten his team close enough for Harrison Butker to tie things up with a 39-yard field goal.New England will have just 8 seconds and this game is almost undoubtedly headed to overtime.This game has lived up to expectations. Rex Burkhead blasted through the middle for a 4-yard touchdown run and the Patriots, who seemed all but done in this game, are now leading 31-28 with just 39 seconds remaining.New England went 65 yards on six plays and survived what appeared to be a Kansas City interception that was overturned as a result of a penalty.For Mahomes there is never a down or distance too far to rule him out, but he has a long way to go with almost no time to do it.Damien Williams raced up the middle for a 2-yard score, putting the Chiefs up by 28-24 with 2:03 left in the A.F.C. championship game.The Chiefs’ drive went 68 yards in five plays, and while it had many key moments for the Kansas City offense, it was far more about mistakes by the New England defense, and J.C. Jackson, a rookie defensive back, isn’t going to be very popular if the Patriots lose this game.Earlier in the drive, Travis Kelce had lost control the of the ball, and Dont’a Hightower had recovered, giving the Patriots the ball and the lead with just over 3 minutes remaining. A late flag came out, and a defensive holding penalty on Jackson had instead given Kansas City a first down.It was just two plays later that Jackson committed a brutal pass interference penalty that gave Kansas City 23 yards.Tom Brady now has two minutes, and the Patriots need a touchdown.Not content to let the Chiefs steal the game, New England marched 75 yards down the field, with Sony Michel barreling his way into the end zone for a 10-yard touchdown run. With the extra point, the Patriots are now back on top, 24-21 with 3:32 remaining in the game.Kansas City’s defense had tightened up considerably on its last few tries, but this time around they once again fell prey to a series of short grinding plays by the Patriots. On top of that, New England was able to take another 4:13 off the clock, extending its lead in time of possession to 37:35 to Kansas City’s 18:53.The drive was impressive overall, but on what is proving to be a rough day for officiating — especially in New Orleans — New England’s drive was extended by an extremely questionable roughing the passer penalty against Chris Jones. The play, in which Jones reached over Brady’s shoulder and tapped his shoulder, was ruled on by an official who was out of position to see what type of contact was made between Jones and Brady.The Chiefs have taken the lead.Given the ball in New England’s territory, Patrick Mahomes needed just two plays to put his team on top, 21-17, with a 23-yard catch-and-run to Damien Williams in which the running back took a floater of a pass from Mahomes and sprinted past the entire Patriots defense on his way into the end zone.Mahomes is up to three touchdown passes in the second half, and this time he capitalized on a Tom Brady mistake — the interception to Daniel Sorensen — to give his team its first lead.In a wild turn of events, the Chiefs lost a turnover thanks to a replay review, but then got the ball back thanks to an interception by Daniel Sorensen.It had briefly looked as if Kansas City had recovered a muffed punt. A lengthy replay review determined the ball never made contact with Julian Edelman’s hands, giving New England the ball at its own 28-yard line.The various replays appeared to show the ball clear Edelman’s hands, despite some odd movements in his thumbs.Considering the Chiefs had come up with a huge stop on 4th-and-inches on New England’s previous drive, the muffed punt was pushing the momentum of the game decidedly in Kansas City’s favor. While having to give the ball back had to be a blow to morale, Sorensen’s interception got the Chiefs right back into it.Patrick Mahomes threw four touchdown passes in the second half of the Chiefs’ loss to the Patriots in Week 6, and he’s already up to two in the second half of this game. His latest, a 1-yarder to Damien Williams, has Kansas City trailing New England, 17-14.The scoring drive went 75 yards on nine plays, with the biggest highlights coming on a 33-yard catch-and-run by Williams, and a brutal pass interference penalty in which New England’s J.C. Jackson mugged Travis Kelce in the end zone, setting the Chiefs up with a 1st-and-goal from New England’s 1-yard line.On top of those plays, Mahomes showed some toughness on the drive, stepping out of the way of a sack attempt and racing for a 9-yard gain, plowing into Patrick Chung at the end of the play, and then picking up a first down on a sneak up the middle.A few plays later, Mahomes saved the drive yet again with a sidearm throw to Sammy Watkins for a first down. The play after that was the huge run down the sideline by Williams in which the running back spun his way down the field past New England defenders.The touchdown seemed all but inevitable once the Chiefs reached the red zone, but the pass interference call against Jackson made it nice and easy for Mahomes to roll out and hit Williams with the short pass.The Patriots’ lead is up to 10 points after Stephen Gostkowski connected on a 47-yard field goal attempt.New England had to go just 8 yards to set up the score after having held tight against Kansas City’s offense with the Chiefs backed up inside their own 5 to start their previous drive. As a result, New England started the drive on the 50-yard line.The Chiefs’ defense acquitted itself fairly well on the latest scoring drive, holding tight on a 3rd-and-17, but thanks to the short field that didn’t matter.In what could be turning into a game of field position, the Patriots may have just given themselves a big advantage despite the teams having traded punts.Kansas City failed to do anything on its second possession of the second half, with Patrick Mahomes and his teammates going just 4 yards on five plays. But the drive had started at Kansas City’s 4-yard line thanks to a brutal sequence in which Tyreek Hill cost himself around 12 yards by running backward in hopes of finding a seam to exploit, and a blocking penalty tacking on another 3-yard loss.As a result, New England will be getting the ball at the 50-yard line, still up 14-7.Kansas City wasted no time getting on the scoreboard in the second half, needing just 2:04 to get a 12-yard touchdown pass from Patrick Mahomes to Travis Kelce. The Chiefs now trail, 14-7.Things started slowly, with Damien Williams picking up a combined 8 yards on a short reception and a short run. But Mahomes saw an opportunity to do some damage on third down, and he rolled out to his right before launching the ball downfield to Sammy Watkins for a 54-yard reception that caught the Patriots’ second sleeping.Clearly energized by the play, Mahomes threw aggressively to Kelce in the end zone, and as he has done so many times before, Kelce was able to control the ball in traffic and reward his quarterback’s faith.A mostly quiet first half ended with the Chiefs going out meekly, as Patrick Mahomes momentarily lost the ball on a strip-sack fumble before he recovered it and simply knelt on the ball to send his team to the locker room, down by 14-0.While the score is still relatively close, New England has dictated the tone of the game. The Patriots have exploited the Chiefs’ front-seven with a series of short passes and runs — not allowing Kansas City’s top pass-rushers any time to get to Tom Brady — and New England’s defense has mostly contained the Chiefs’ offense.That has resulted in a huge disparity in playing time, with New England’s offense holding the ball for 21:07 compared to 8:53 for the Chiefs.There was a brief glimpse of what Mahomes is capable of on two completions in the second quarter in which he was able to deal with the New England pass-rush and find his receivers deep downfield, but that drive produced nothing after a sack pushed Kansas City out of field goal range.Beyond those two throws, Mahomes’s passes have been off the mark, and Damien Williams has gotten nowhere with the running game. The Chiefs were outgained, 245 to 32, in total yardage.This year’s Chiefs scored the third-most points in N.F.L. history, so it is hard to declare them out of any game they play regardless of the score. But Kansas City Coach Andy Reid will need to heavily adjust his strategy on both sides of the ball if he wants to get back into the game.In the one small bit of good news for the Chiefs, they will receive the ball to start the second half.The second quarter had nearly ground to a halt thanks to a series of punts, but New England woke up in the final minute of the first half, with Tom Brady finding Phillip Dorsett for a 29-yard touchdown reception that, along with the extra point, has New England up, 14-0.The Patriots’ latest long drive went 90 yards on eight plays and has left Kansas City with just enough time to run one or two plays — or kneel on the ball — to end the half.The Chiefs’ defense, after failing a series of tests to start the game, came up huge on 3rd-and-goal, with Reggie Ragland intercepting Tom Brady’s pass attempt to Rob Gronkowski, thus stealing some momentum back for Kansas City.Up until that point, the Patriots had seemingly been doing anything they wanted, using runs and short passes to expose a front-seven that is good at rushing the passer but far worse at putting up with the quick hits that the Patriots can accomplish with their small wide receivers and their talented group of running backs.In all, the drive went 43 yards on 11 plays, but the Chiefs were able to escape, still trailing by 7-0.New England had gotten the ball back quickly thanks to a fairly inept first drive by the Chiefs’ offense in which Kansas City generated minus-6 yards as a result of a sack of Patrick Mahomes that came after he had his first two pass attempts of the game fall incomplete. The only positive movement of the drive for the Chiefs came thanks to a 5-yard run by Damien Williams — which he followed with a 2-yard loss — and a 5-yard penalty by the Patriots’ defense.Now Mahomes will get a second chance to show what he can do.It was clear coming in that this game would be a tough test for the Chiefs’ defense, and the unit looked almost helpless on an opening drive by the Patriots in which New England marched 80 yards on 15 plays, punching the ball into the end zone on a 1-yard run by Sony Michel.The seemingly endless drive chewed up 8 minutes 5 seconds of the first quarter and has Kansas City on its heels.The Patriots got off to a quick start on an 11-yard run by Michel, and proceeded down the field through a combination of short passes — Rob Gronkowski had two catches on the drive after having just one all game last week — and runs by their three-headed monster at running back (Michel, James White and Rex Burkhead).In all, Brady threw for 38 yards and the running game contributed 42.AdvertisementA year ago, he had a few songs up on SoundCloud; now his song “Thotiana” is a Top 10 hit. But Blueface knows music is only part of the job.Blueface takes a selfie while performing at the Gothic Theater in Colorado. The 22-year-old rapper was nearly unknown a year ago.CreditCreditBenjamin Rasmussen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaENGLEWOOD, Colo. — For Blueface, everything is still new, and a little surprising. A couple of weeks ago, he was paid $20,000 to perform two songs at the opening of a boutique. When he asks women in the crowd at concerts to lift up their shirts, they oblige. Recently, seated in first class on a flight, he ran his phone camera over the sea of other people in cushioned seats, smiled and implored his viewers to “say hello to all my Caucasian friends.”When the 22-year-old rapper born Johnathan Porter posts these happenings on his Instagram story, he often gives the camera a little flat-affect eyebrow-raise, a Jim Halpert out in the hip-hop wilds.The unlikely and wild moments are arriving ever more quickly these days, now that Blueface has catapulted from local Los Angeles rap notoriety to national ubiquity thanks to his single “Thotiana,” which recently reached No. 9 on the Billboard Hot 100. The slow-tempo bacchanal full of nearly whispered boasts was originally released last summer, but has recently exploded: first as a viral sensation with accompanying dances, and lately via a couple of remixes — one, with YG, to bolster its street authority, and a second, with Cardi B, to ease its path into pop ubiquity.By December, when Blueface signed a distribution deal for his first mixtape, “Famous Cryp,” with Entertainment One Records, it was already notching between 5 and 7 million streams a week, according to Nielsen Music. Alan Grunblatt, the label’s president of urban music, said “Thotiana” was poised to be the most successful song he’s worked on since Bone Thugs-n-Harmony’s No. 1, double-platinum “Crossroads.”“Getting to this point probably took about 25 percent music,” Blueface said, verging on unimpressed, at his Denver hotel on a quiet afternoon in between shows in Colorado Springs and Englewood late last month. The rest, he noted laconically: “Marketing, promotion, being yourself.”Unlike most rappers, he openly describes Blueface as a character. “Blueface is probably 10 times Johnathan,” he said. “Every rapper, I don’t give a [expletive] what they tell you, they got two different personalities — they not like that when they at home.” In a genre that’s long been burdened with the expectations of authenticity bumping up against the dictates of entertainment, such candor is refreshing, and utterly reasonable.As rising-star origin stories go, this is rather unromantic, but telling of the times. Blueface is, perhaps above all, a first-rate character actor of the meme era, right down to the tattoo of Benjamin Franklin that creeps from his right ear all the way to the middle of his cheek. If you watch closely, you can see Blueface leaning into the theater of it all. He’s honed a few signature moves that he breaks out at every show: moistening the tips of his pointer finger and pinkie in his mouth, then smoothing out his eyebrows; grabbing a mop and putting it to work during “Bleed It”; pouring water over himself somewhere in between “Freak Bitch” and “Thotiana.” And then there’s the dance — the comically sexual bust down, in which he yanks at the waistband of his pants while studiously gyrating. Always, the look on his face is part rough-edged heartthrob, part can-you-believe-this?What makes Blueface’s ascendance even more intriguing is that his flow is deeply unorthodox. On the skeletal but urgent “Famous Cryp,” his arrangement of words often bears only a passing relationship to the beats he’s rapping over. His syllables can be arrhythmic, and the conclusions of his lines fall over the end, like Wile E. Coyote zooming past the edge of a cliff, legs still pumping. At times, he suggests the embryonic Los Angeles gangster rap of the late 1980s, or even vocal eccentrics like E-40 and Suga Free. But his approach feels novel and raw, not hyperstylized. Debates about rap’s generational crisis — agonizing over younger rappers less concerned with the work of rhyme than their elders — have by now become frequent and tiresome, but Blueface’s music has spawned the unusual circumstance of people actually debating about art, rather than presentation. (“In Defense of Blueface” read one Pitchfork headline.)A YEAR AGO, Blueface had just a few songs up on SoundCloud; now, he’s at the dawn of his mainstream ascendance, meaning that to some, he’s a cause for excitement, and to others, a cause for concern. In Colorado Springs, during a jovial set for a couple hundred enthusiasts, he did the mop thing, the eyebrow thing, the bust down. Some women lifted up their tops, and he filmed them. At the end of the night, he noticed two small children by the foot of the stage, and brought them up. How old were they? Nine and 11, they replied. A mischievous look came over his face and he asked if they’d ever seen a woman’s breast before. They didn’t quite know what to make of the question, and fortunately, no one gave them a quick lesson.The next night, Blueface and his entourage pulled up to the back door of the Gothic Theater in Englewood and were greeted by an agitated security guard, a couple of concerned-looking venue representatives and a baby-faced local police officer. The security guard said he’d received reports of trouble in Colorado Springs, something about underage women exposing their breasts onstage (which had not happened). Blueface was mostly quiet while his bombastic manager, Wack 100, protested, “Was you there to see that?”The game of chicken outside the venue lasted around five minutes; each side threatened to derail the night’s show before eventually relenting. Blueface remained quiet and nonconfrontational, more accommodationist than rabble-rouser. The show went off without a hitch.Blueface has a sleepy, easy charm, and moves with the carriage of the athletic star he was just a few years ago. If it was the early 1990s, he’d already have been cast in a Hughes Brothers or John Singleton film. (For now, how about a three-episode arc on “Ballers”?)When he was a child, his mother, who’d moved to Los Angeles from Ohio to pursue acting, took him around for commercial auditions. “It was fun when I got picked and I was in the commercial and it was like, ‘oh, look at the commercial!’” he said. “But I didn’t enjoy it as a kid.”He stopped auditioning once he began taking football more seriously. He attended several high schools, constantly changing in pursuit of a better sports program. William Coan coached Blueface during his 2014 senior year at Arleta High School, during which the team went 8-4, averaging 40 points a game. Blueface was the starting quarterback, and talented — “Not only could he throw the ball, he could run the ball as well,” Coan said — and also easy to coach: After the team worked out in the weight room, Blueface would blast the gratingly saccharine “Clean Up,” from the Barney children’s series, from his phone.Getting groomed for the spotlight on the field has been a help in music. “You the center of attention,” Blueface said. “Keep your poise, pressure make diamonds.”Blueface moved to North Carolina to give college football a try, and his mother left California as well. When he returned after a short stint that went nowhere, her absence ended up being a boon. “I think if she was in Cali when I was doing my thing, it wouldn’t have worked,” he said. “I would have been in her nest, and she wouldn’t have necessarily agreed with half the [expletive] I was doing. It made Blueface be able to be Blueface 100 percent.”Blueface was his street name — he is a member of the School Yard Crips gang, which dominated the neighborhood he grew up in before it was his rap name. When he returned from college, he became a stay-at-home dad, caring for his son, Jevaughn, while Jevaughn’s mother, Jaidyn, would go off to work. He thought he might become a barber, and ran an Instagram account called the Fade Room, showing off haircuts and fights. But after a chance outing to a studio, he decided to pursue rapping, making a list of steps for music-business success, only some of which had to do with music.“I didn’t know what kind of sound I wanted to make. I didn’t have no influences,” he said. “I just heard my voice in the microphone and was like, damn, I like that.” He posted a handful of songs to SoundCloud, each with a different style. The one that stuck was “Deadlocs,” a casual, boastful talker with a spooky beat from an old friend, Scum Beatz. He set goals for daily play counts, and for when he would shoot a video. Then he started creating viral moments — taking informal polls on Instagram about which high school’s students were following him the most, then driving to that school and performing an impromptu concert atop his car. Rather than goof off to gain followers, he wanted to be sure his face was connected to his song: “Putting it from your ears to your eyes.”IN TODAY’S HIP-HOP ecosystem, distribution and starmaking systems are well-oiled; the fans are there before the artist ever shows up. Memes get disseminated quickly (and mostly discarded quickly too). Snippets of songs are used as soundtracks for selfie or dance videos. The music — the musician — is often merely an accent.That makes social media a necessary evil and a savage tease for upstart musicians of this generation: You have to cultivate a viral-friendly image, but not let it swallow your art. “People be famous for everything other than music and that’s what they really trying to do,” Blueface said. “But they don’t know once you get famous for being this funny guy, nobody’s going to take you serious as a musician.”Still, if it’s virality the kids want, then virality Blueface will give them. Last year, when he wasn’t yet able to Crip walk (a footwork-heavy dance pioneered by Crips), he was mocked online. So he taught himself, filming his progress. However he doesn’t always identify when the winds aren’t going his way, like when he faced backlash for recently referring to a transgender woman as “it.” He shrugged off questions about the matter.As for his living-meme Ben Franklin tattoo, he insists he was sober when he got it, not long after he’d decided to become a rapper, but long before fans had really taken to him. “The people that went with me was like, ‘Nah, don’t do that. Do not do that.’” Blueface said. But he was determined: “This is going to be the never-forget-it,” he told them. No turning back.Eventually, Blueface collected several songs he’d posted on his SoundCloud on “Famous Cryp,” which he initially released independently and has gone as high as No. 29 on the Billboard album chart. He is also signed to Cash Money West, and his new music, including the singles “Bleed It” and “Studio,” will be released via Republic, a division of the Universal Music conglomerate. “I’ve got two labels going full throttle with two singles,” Wack 100 said. Add to that guest appearances on songs by G-Eazy, Tyga and others, creating, he said, “so much traffic.”The suffusion is likely to continue through the spring; Blueface has recorded songs with Drake, the Game, French Montana, Lil Pump, E-40 and others.“‘Thotiana’ has become, like, a worldly song. It’s like ‘Teach Me How to Dougie,’ ‘Chicken Noodle Soup,’” Wack 100 said, referring to transcendent hip-hop one-hit wonders of a decade ago. “What happens is those songs will get so big and the artist will get caught up in the moment of making all the money off that song that then when it drowns out, you come with a song after the fact and because it’s not as big as that, people won’t deal with you. So I’m forced to feed them something different.”In recent months, as Blueface’s career has been thriving, there have been legal setbacks. He was arrested in February on charges of gun possession and last November on charges of assault with a deadly weapon (after he was reportedly the victim of a robbery). Blueface has pleaded not guilty in both cases.In the meanwhile, Johnathan is trying to squeeze all the rewards out of being Blueface. He bought a house in a gated community. When he last saw his mother, he gave her $10,000 in cash. Jaidyn joined him in Colorado — the two have been on and off since high school, and slowly, he’s trying to induct her into his new life. “To understand that you are literally two different people inside of one body, she’s just starting to get it,” he said. “You with Johnathan — you don’t want to be with Blueface.”This month, he’ll be on tour opening for Lil Baby. And this summer, he hopes to release a proper full-length album. But you can almost sense the creeping fatigue. Being Blueface is, right now, almost constant work.“I just want to get paid to lay down, wake up when I want to wake up, go to sleep when I want to go to sleep, and my money just be there,” he said, unapologetically. “I just want to make the most doing the least.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaOAKLAND, Calif. — The Golden State Warriors run a practice drill that Coach Steve Kerr did not intend as a tribute, even if he named it after someone who taught him a great deal. He calls it the “Lute Olson drill,” and it is a blur of activity: a 3-on-2 exercise that Kerr uses to get his players up and down the court.“It’s a good way to get a little running and rhythm and shooting,” he said.The Warriors, who are pretty good at those things, have elevated basketball into modern art in recent seasons. But Kerr, as he helps define basketball’s present, cannot help but dip into his past. He learned that drill in 1983, when he was a freshman guard at the University of Arizona playing for Olson, who was in the early stages of building a college powerhouse. Kerr, ever the student, was already absorbing as much as he could.Olson, 84, retired as the men’s basketball coach at Arizona in 2008, but his influence resonates. Not so much, oddly enough, at the college level, where, of late, Arizona has had its well-publicized struggles along with the rest of the Pac-12 Conference. Instead, Olson’s impact exists largely in the N.B.A. — and with the Warriors, in particular.Bruce Fraser, one of Kerr’s longtime assistants, played for Olson in the 1980s before working under him as a graduate assistant. And Andre Iguodala, the veteran Warriors forward, played at Arizona from 2002 to 2004, when he sought to emulate an older teammate named Luke Walton.“All the fundamentals,” Iguodala said. “Things like footwork, body positioning and just being a smart player.”Walton, who now has the thankless task of coaching the Los Angeles Lakers, is still considered a member of the Warriors’ extended family after serving as one of Kerr’s assistants for two seasons. Before Walton joined the Warriors in 2014, Kerr did not know him well. But Olson recommended him, and that was more than enough.“If you came out of Arizona during that era, you knew how to play the game,” Fraser said. “And that was mostly because of Lute.”Olson, who has had health issues in recent years, emphasized basketball basics. Each practice began with a series of chest passes. Players worked on their weak hands. The Warriors, who warm up by launching half-court heaves, are slightly less regimented.“If Coach Olson walked in and saw some of this, he’d be shaking his head,” Fraser said. “He’d think we’re so loose.”The Warriors are still mindful of the essentials, though, especially at training camp, where they dribble around traffic cones and throw passes at pitch-back nets configured with targets. If they channel the Harlem Globetrotters, their flamboyance is rooted in bedrock principles.“And I think you could tie a lot of that back to Coach Olson and Arizona,” Fraser said.Kerr played for several legendary N.B.A. coaches — Phil Jackson, Gregg Popovich, Lenny Wilkens, Cotton Fitzsimmons — and he took pieces from each as he developed his own style. Jerry Marvin, his former coach at Palisades High School in Los Angeles, made a big impression, too. But these were coaches with unique approaches.“I think the common thread is their force of personality,” Kerr said. “They all saw the game a little differently and ran different stuff, basing a lot of it on their personnel. But it’s not what made them great coaches. It was having great talent, and then developing a great culture and system so that their talent could flourish.”Olson, for example, adapted to the strengths of his roster. He became more guard-oriented over the years, especially after he recruited high-profile players like Damon Stoudamire, Khalid Reeves and Gilbert Arenas. (Kerr noted how he had been one of the “slow guys in the backcourt” when Olson was just starting out at Arizona.)But Olson was not necessarily trying to outwit anyone by being especially innovative. Basketball, Kerr said, is not like football, where a mastermind like Bill Belichick can lean on his tactical genius to mold the New England Patriots into the most dominant N.F.L. team of his era.“Football is so strategic,” Kerr said. “But in basketball, there aren’t many guys I can think of historically who are the best coaches on earth who were just offensive wizards or defensive wizards. It was more about the culture they built and the way their teams played together — not a style or a system.”It has become a hackneyed concept in sports, as if teams can just crack the code on demand, but Olson was all about culture, his former players say. Jason Terry, a retired N.B.A. guard who played at Arizona from 1995 to 1999, recalled his recruitment. He was not a shy young man, but Olson, at that point firmly established as one of the game’s top coaches, had the sort of gravitas that intimidated him.On the second day of Terry’s official visit to Arizona, Olson and his wife, Bobbi, had him over for pancakes.“These unbelievable pancakes,” Terry, an analyst for Turner Sports, said in a telephone interview. “That was a big part of the recruitment. But I also remember that he kind of came over and put his big paw on my shoulder, and I jumped. He was like, ‘Nothing to be scared of young fella. It’s great to have you in my home.’ And from that point on, you were just at ease.”Olson, Terry said, was the first coach he had who never used profanity. Olson would glare. His face would go red. And those big paws would shake.“But he would never yell,” Terry said. “He would just say your name over and over and over.”Above all, Olson imbued his players with the sense that they were a part of something larger than themselves. Before the national championship game in 1997, two prominent alumni — Kerr and Sean Elliott, both of whom had graduated to the N.B.A. — boarded the team bus. Olson had invited them to address his players, and their message was simple: Do it for all of us who have come before you but could never quite get the job done.Terry saw that Olson had tears in his eyes. Arizona went on to win its first national title by defeating Kentucky in overtime.“We knew that we couldn’t let him down,” Terry said.With the Warriors, Kerr definitely swears on occasion. (Ask Draymond Green.) And the N.B.A. is not college basketball. But Kerr still tries to foster an atmosphere that is more about the collective whole than about its supremely talented parts. Kerr loathes isolation sets. He celebrates ball movement. And he stages team dinners on road trips, where family members are welcome.As for the Pac-12, these are rough days. Arizona, under Coach Sean Miller, has been entwined in a corruption scandal, and the conference could send just one team to the N.C.A.A. tournament. Iguodala described the Pac-12 as garbage (he used a more colorful word), though he expressed hope moving forward. Kerr was more diplomatic.“It’s been a dry spell,” he said. “And I really don’t know the answer.”In fact, the Pac-12 has not won a national championship since Kerr boarded the Arizona team bus back in 1997 and delivered his pregame pep talk. But in his own way, as the Warriors chase another title, he is still carrying the mantle for the conference and his old coach.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerDon Nice, who in a varied career was known for Pop Art, paintings inspired by the Hudson River and works that broke free of the traditional rectangular canvas, died on Monday in Cortlandt, N.Y. He was 86.His daughter, Leslie Heanue, confirmed the death but did not specify a cause.Mr. Nice began painting in the 1950s. At first he was enthralled by the Abstract Expressionism of the period, but he eventually found it limiting.“I’d be doing a painting, and suddenly there’s a big red blob, and people would say, ‘That looks like an apple,’ so I’d paint it out,” he was quoted as saying in a biographical essay by Antonia D. Bryan on his website.He began painting realistic images, some quite large — grapes, a sneaker, a buffalo. When the buffalo painting, 11 feet wide, was exhibited in 1985 at the since-closed Fine Arts Museum of Long Island, in Hempstead, Phyllis Braff wrote in The New York Times that “normal perceptual range contributes to a sensation of walking into brush-stroke segments belonging to a larger mass.”After leaving New York City and moving in 1969 to the banks of the Hudson River in Garrison, N.Y., Mr. Nice became increasingly interested in natural landscapes. He also explored paintings that broke free of the traditional painter’s rectangle.“Don Nice is more than eclectically captivating in his combination of Pop Art, shaped canvases and realism,” David Shirey wrote in The Times, reviewing a 1982 group show on Long Island in which Mr. Nice was represented, “for he ingeniously fuses out of disparate idioms his own unmistakable artistic imprint.”Donald Harry Nice was born on June 26, 1932, in Visalia, Calif., about 35 miles west of Sequoia National Park. His father, Hubert, was a bookkeeper, and his mother, Violet (Vinding) Nice, worked for a time for the Tulare County district attorney’s office. There were no art classes at his high school, but an aunt and a grandfather, both amateur painters, encouraged his interest in drawing.He attended the University of Southern California on a football scholarship, taking art classes and earning a teaching certificate. After graduating in 1954, he taught high school and then, in 1955, joined the Army. He spent two years at Fort Ord in California, where, his website’s biography says, he painted a 24-foot mural in the mess hall.After leaving the Army in 1957, Mr. Nice spent several years in Europe, absorbing the artistic influences of the day. While in Paris he met Sandra Kay Smith, a model and designer from Minnesota. They married in 1959 and returned to the United States, where Mr. Nice taught painting and design at the Minneapolis School of Art. In 1962 he was accepted into the fine arts program at Yale, and he received a master’s degree there in 1964.In 1968 he was represented in “Realism Now,” an important exhibition at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He also began to receive regular solo exhibitions in New York City and elsewhere.After 1980, Mr. Nice began looking for alternatives to the traditional shape of a painting, which he called “the Renaissance window.” That led him to create works like “Montana Spinner, 2002,” which had a view of the Montana mountains on a five-sided polygon in the center, with five arms projecting from it bearing images of flora and wildlife.“We have to move forward in our visions,” Mr. Nice told The Times Union of Albany in 2004. “To simply rely on a window in the Renaissance sense is to close off any investigation into what may be beyond it.”“Montana Spinner” was painted on anodized aluminum, a material he liked for the way it captured and reflected light.“I’m convinced that anodized aluminum is the material of the future,” he told The Times in 1999. “Jackson Pollock said that each new age demands a new material.”Although he explored the new, Mr. Nice was also firmly linked to one tradition: the Hudson River School. After moving to Garrison, he painted river scenes often, taking several lengthy trips along the waterway as part of the process. One was in 1999.“We traveled 173 miles up the Hudson River from Manhattan to Glens Falls,” he told The Times in 2000, “and every time the landscape spoke to me, I asked the captain, Jeff Cunningham, to stop the boat.”The viewpoint, he said, enabled him to differentiate himself from his forebears.“The old, or traditional, approach of the Hudson River School painter would have been to break down the landscape in terms of foreground, middle ground and background,” he said. “Painting from a boat eliminates the foreground, which minimizes the notion of Renaissance space.”Mr. Nice’s work has been exhibited frequently in galleries and museums, especially in New York State, and is in the collections of dozens of museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art.His wife died in 2017. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a son, Brian, and four grandchildren.Mr. Nice was once asked about the meaning of his Hudson River works.“I’d rather think of the paintings as being meaningful rather than having meaning,” he said. “Meaning is a specific message, but by ‘meaningful,’ I mean some reference to something beyond definition, something we can’t pin down, nor should we.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah BeechBANGKOK — The global sports market is worth hundreds of billions of dollars a year. Now, this powerful industry is coming together to promote an unlikely cause: human rights.Since late November, a Bahrain-born soccer player for a minor team in Australia has been held in detention in Thailand. The player, Hakeem al-Araibi, 24, is not a famous athlete. He has no lucrative sponsors.But he has spoken out against one of the most powerful men in international soccer, who is also a member of the ruling family of Bahrain. His testimony of torture at the hands of Bahrain’s repressive government earned him refugee status in Australia, which determined that he faced credible threats of persecution should he return to the Gulf state.Still, over the past week, Mr. Araibi has collected an impressive list of supporters in the world of international sports.Fatma Samoura, the secretary general of FIFA, the international body governing global soccer, has called for Thailand to return him to Australia “as a matter of urgency.” So has Thomas Bach, the head of the International Olympic Committee, who raised the issue with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.On Tuesday, Praful Patel, a vice president of the Asian Football Confederation, issued a statement asking Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha of Thailand to ensure Mr. Araibi’s return to his adopted home.The head of the Asian Football Confederation is Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim al-Khalifa, the Bahraini official whom Mr. Araibi accused of not stopping the persecution of athletes in his charge. Sheikh Salman also serves as a FIFA vice president.Such a collection of statements of support is rare, said Mary Harvey, the chief executive of the Center for Sports and Human Rights, which assembles governments, sports bodies, corporate sponsors and nongovernmental groups to ensure the role of human rights in sports.“Hakeem is a historic test case, because it’s the first time that we’ve seen these big, powerful sports bodies all come together publicly to address the fate of a single person,” said Ms. Harvey, who was a member of the United States national soccer team and a FIFA executive.Sports has been buffeted by growing concerns about the hidden human costs of mega-events, like the Olympics and the World Cup, that have been used to bring international glory to authoritarian governments. Hundreds of foreign laborers, mainly from South Asia, have died in the building of stadiums and other infrastructure for the 2022 men’s soccer World Cup in Qatar, according to the International Trade Union Confederation.Although the Qatari government has pledged to improve the rights of its migrant work force, some construction workers and foreign athletes continue to work in what is essentially indentured servitude, human-rights monitors say.Last year’s hosting of the men’s soccer World Cup by Russia was marred by racism and homophobia controversies. Both bids for the World Cup by Qatar and Russia were tarnished by a series of corruption scandals that cleared out a significant portion of FIFA’s leadership ranks. With corporate sponsors nervous about a backlash from sports fans, FIFA unveiled a series of reforms aimed at bettering its human rights.In January, Brendan Schwab, the executive director of the World Players Association, which represents 85,000 professional athletes worldwide, wrote an urgent legal request on the “severe violation of the human rights” of Mr. Araibi, which was submitted to FIFA. The brief was also signed by unions representing professional soccer players.“Hakeem’s case is about a football player, it’s about a human-rights defender, it’s about a refugee and it’s about global sport’s ability to uphold its stated commitment to human rights,” Mr. Schwab said.Although FIFA now has binding human-rights policies, they are largely untested. Even though FIFA’s human rights advisory board was formed two years ago, the request on Mr. Araibi’s behalf was the first time such a formal submission had been made.When Mr. Araibi traveled to Bangkok on Nov. 27 with his wife for a belated honeymoon, the Thai authorities were waiting for him at the airport.Initially, Thai officials said Mr. Araibi had been detained based on an Interpol request alerting the immigration authorities to fugitives of justice. But Interpol quickly lifted that request because such alerts, called red notices, are not supposed to apply to refugees.Nevertheless, Bahrain has formally asked Thailand for Mr. Araibi’s extradition so he can return to face a 10-year prison sentence for a conviction in absentia on charges that he burned a police station, among other convictions.Last week, the extradition request was passed on to the Thai attorney general’s office, said Busadee Santipitaks, a spokeswoman for the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs, meaning that Mr. Araibi’s fate could be decided in a matter of days.Mr. Araibi was playing in a televised football match when the police station he was supposed to have attacked was burned. Bahrain has racked up thousands of questionable convictions related to its crushing of its Arab Spring movement in 2011, when hundreds of thousands of Bahrainis joined street protests, human rights groups say.Thailand, which has not signed an international convention on refugees, has a history of extraditing human rights defenders to countries they have fled, like China or Bahrain, where they are likely to face imprisonment or torture.In early January, however, a Saudi teenager who had flown to Bangkok and feared death from her family, avoided deportation and was eventually allowed to travel on to Canada, where she was granted asylum. Her release followed an outcry on social media.In 2016, Sheikh Salman, who has refused to answer questions about Mr. Araibi’s detention in Thailand, ran for the FIFA presidency. But his front-runner status diminished in part because of questions raised about Bahrain’s record of imprisoning protesters, including members of the national soccer team.Instead, Gianni Infantino, who was born in Switzerland, won the top job. Both Mr. Infantino and Sheikh Salman are up for re-election to their respective posts this year.Running for the first time for a vice-presidential post in the Asian Football Confederation is Somyot Poompanmoung, the leader of the Football Association of Thailand. A former national police chief, Mr. Somyot faced a scandal last year after it emerged that he had received large loans from a fugitive brothel owner implicated in human trafficking.Thailand has mulled the possibility of jointly bidding for the World Cup in 2034 with another Southeast Asian nation. After the tainted bids by Russia and Qatar, updated FIFA guidelines now require that human rights be considered as a factor in deciding which country wins the right to host the prestigious tournament.“Sports, like the Olympics and football, should and can bring social change,” said Craig Foster, a former captain of the Australian national soccer team who has lobbied on Mr. Araibi’s behalf.“We’ve got to hold governments accountable and say, ‘If you want the great honor of hosting these major sports tournaments, then you have to accept global human rights standards,’” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonRoger Goodell began his tenure as commissioner of the N.F.L. in 2006 declaring that disciplining the league’s 2,000 players for their transgressions would be a priority. True to his word, the number of suspensions and fines rose, and it remains high relative to what it was.Disciplining owners, though, has been more complicated. As with players, the N.F.L. constitution gives the league commissioner broad authority to penalize owners for “conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football.”But while the players essentially work for Goodell, and have little leverage to influence his decisions, Goodell works for the owners, and those owners include Robert K. Kraft of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots.Kraft, 77, was charged on Friday with two counts of soliciting sex as part of a wide-ranging investigation into prostitution and human trafficking in Florida. The police in Jupiter, Fla., used video surveillance that showed Kraft inside a massage parlor that, the police said, was used for selling sex.In a statement, the Patriots “categorically deny that Mr. Kraft engaged in any illegal activity.”However the case is resolved, the episode is an embarrassment to a league that likes to portray itself as a pillar of moral rectitude but that has struggled to shake an image that its players, employees and owners treat women poorly.The league has been rocked by a host of domestic violence scandals. Cheerleaders have detailed how they were exploited by their teams. Last year, Jerry Richardson, the former owner of the Carolina Panthers, was fined $2.75 million after an investigation confirmed claims that for years he sexually harassed employees.Now this.If Kraft is found to have committed a crime, even a misdemeanor, Goodell will be under pressure to penalize him to compensate for the embarrassment the league has suffered. How he treats the matter will provide an illustration of the dynamics of power at the highest ranks of the league and show the lengths he will go to appear to treat players and owners equally before the expiration of the current labor deal two years from now.Kraft may be the league’s most successful owner: His franchise has won six Super Bowl titles since the 2001 season. As a key figure in negotiating labor deals and broadcast contracts, he may also be the league’s most powerful one. He is also a confidant of the commissioner, close with the leaders of the league’s media partners and the league’s go-between with President Trump.That said, the N.F.L. includes its share of misfits and wayward sons, and from time to time, the patriarch, or, in this case, the commissioner, has to dole out justice. How much justice often depends on the stature of the owner, the offense he or she committed and any past transgressions.Some cases are straightforward. When Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., the former owner of the San Francisco 49ers, pleaded guilty for failing to report a felony arising from a gambling fraud and extortion case, few were surprised when the commissioner at the time, Paul Tagliabue, fined him $1 million and suspended him for the 1999 season.Jim Irsay, the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, who has a history of substance abuse, pleaded guilty to driving while impaired, and was promptly suspended for six games and fined $500,000 for violating the league’s personal conduct policy.Kraft’s case is more complicated. He was charged with two misdemeanors, and those charges may be reduced or dropped as charges of soliciting a prostitute often are. Kraft is not married. His wife, Myra, died of cancer in 2011.Hugh Culverhouse Jr., who was involved in league matters when his father owned the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and who practiced federal criminal law for 30 years, said Goodell would most likely wait to see if the charges against Kraft were dropped, and then might only issue a fine.Even so, he suggested Kraft was likely to be treated with kid gloves because he is among the most powerful owners. Kraft also sits on the compensation committee, which determines the size of Goodell’s paycheck.“He essentially could be sanctioned for bad taste,” Culverhouse said. “It will come down to embarrassment.”In a statement, the N.F.L. said it is “aware of the ongoing law enforcement matter and will continue to monitor developments.”At the very least, the commissioner will have to appear not to have one set of rules for players and another for owners. There are differences, though. Player penalties are negotiated by the players’ union and the league and included in the collective bargaining agreement.The league’s constitution says Goodell can suspend or fine an owner (for no more than $500,000), or both. A suspended owner cannot go to the team’s training facility or stadium.If warranted, the commissioner can refer the matter to the entire group of owners, which can vote to impose additional penalties.That is unlikely to happen in Kraft’s case. Jodi Balsam, who was a lawyer at the N.F.L. and now teaches at Brooklyn Law School, said the league often waits until legal cases are resolved before penalties are assessed. Prostitution cases are often adjudicated quickly, she said, though this case will receive more scrutiny because it is part of a human trafficking investigation.“If he is convicted, that would seem to bolster the case for commissioner discipline,” she said. And “even if he escapes criminal penalty, the league can conduct its own investigation and decide to penalize him.”Goodell and the Patriots have butted heads before, over Spygate, in which the Patriots were found to be filming their opponents’ sideline to steal signals, and Deflategate, in which a league investigation determined it was most likely that the team had deliberately deflated footballs in inclement weather so players could grip the ball better.Kraft didn’t hide his anger about the penalties his organization received in those cases. This one, of course, is different.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirAl Silverman, a magazine editor and publishing executive who collaborated with the Chicago Bears halfback Gale Sayers on an autobiography that was adapted into “Brian’s Song,” the popular 1971 television movie about the friendship between Mr. Sayers and his dying teammate, Brian Piccolo, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.His son Brian confirmed the death.In 1969, when he began his conversations with Mr. Sayers, Mr. Silverman was well known in sports publishing. He had been a prolific freelance writer in the 1950s for various magazines, including Sport, a popular monthly, which hired him as its editor in chief in 1960, and where he was still working. He had also written books about, or with, sports figures like Mickey Mantle, Joe DiMaggio and Frank Robinson.In Mr. Sayers, who was 26, Mr. Silverman had a sensational young player as a subject: In his first three seasons, beginning in 1965, his speed and elusiveness had made him a superstar. But an injury to his right knee during a game in 1968 imperiled his career; he was still recovering when he began to tell his life story to Mr. Silverman, who wrote about his regimen of physical rehabilitation for Sport.Their book, “I Am Third” (1970), contained one chapter called “Pick,” about his friendship with Mr. Piccolo, who died of lung cancer in 1970. (The book’s title refers to a sign Mr. Sayers had seen on his college track coach’s desk: “The Lord is first, my friends are second, and I am third.”)“As much as they cut into this man, as much as he was inflicted with terrible pain and discomfort, as much as he was faced with all these tortures, his spirit would not be destroyed,” Mr. Sayers and Mr. Silverman wrote. “That was the beautiful nature of Brian Piccolo.”The story told in that chapter became the basis for “Brian’s Song,” a tear-jerker that starred Billy Dee Williams as Mr. Sayers and James Caan as Mr. Piccolo and became one of the most-watched TV movies of all time and won the 1972 Emmy Award for outstanding single program. It was remade for television in 2001 with Mekhi Phifer and Sean Maher.“I don’t remember my father talking about his greatest projects, but in terms of royalties, it was the best,” Brian Silverman said by telephone.Mr. Silverman left the sports world in 1972, when he joined the Book-of-the-Month Club mail-order concern as executive vice president and editorial director. While there, Mr. Silverman understood that smart marketing was as important as selecting the right books for its broad swath of readers.“He had a great gift for creating an event out of an editorial decision and making book-club members feel like participants in the event, at a time when book clubs were considered predictable,” Larry Shapiro, the club’s former executive editor, said in an email.During his 16 years at the Book-of-the-Month Club, Mr. Silverman rose to president and later chief executive before joining Viking Books as a general editor.“The thrill was working for the first time in my life with writers, which you don’t do at Book-of-the-Month Club,” he told Publishers Weekly in an interview in 2002. “At Viking I was given great writers to work with, including William Kennedy, Robertson Davies and Saul Bellow.”Mr. Silverman also edited several of  T. C. Boyle’s books, including the novel “The Tortilla Curtain” (1995).“He gave me his full support and a devotion rare in the publishing world,” Mr. Boyle wrote in an email. “He was generous with his time and affection, an editor who cared deeply about his authors.”Elwyn Harmon Silverman was born on April 12, 1926, in Lynn, Mass. His father, Henry, was a tailor, and his mother, Minnie (Damsky) Silverman, was a homemaker.Al grew up a fan of the Boston Braves and later wrote a biography of Warren Spahn, the Braves’ Hall of Fame pitcher. After graduating from Boston University and serving stateside in the Navy during World War II, Mr. Silverman began freelancing.As editor of Sport, one of his ceremonial tasks was to award a sports car to the athlete designated most valuable player in the World Series, the National Basketball Association finals and other postseason championships.When the running back Paul Hornung was celebrated for leading the Green Bay Packers to the 1961 National Football League championship, Sport awarded him a 1962 Corvette. Mr. Hornung soon after sold the car and got into a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service in United States Tax Court after he failed to disclose the full market value of the car as part of his gross income for 1962.“My father testified to Hornung’s defense that he should not pay income tax on the car,” Brian Silverman said. His father argued that the car was an unsolicited reward for Mr. Hornung’s talents and thus should be tax-exempt — “the same as a Nobel Prize, because football was Hornung’s art and he performed it to an award-winning degree.” Mr. Hornung lost the case.Mr. Silverman later collaborated with Mr. Hornung on his memoir “Football and the Single Man” (1965).In addition to his son Brian, Mr. Silverman is survived by his wife, Rosa (Magaro) Silverman; two other sons, Thomas and Matthew; and seven grandchildren.Mr. Silverman continued to write books after retiring from Viking. He returned to sports with “It’s Not Over ’Til It’s Over: Stories Behind the Most Magnificent, Heart-Stoping Miracles of Our Time” (2002), and he wrote about postwar book publishing in “The Time of Their Lives” (2008).In his review of “The Time of Their Lives” for The New York Times, the novelist and playwright Bruce Jay Friedman called it “a wonderful book, filled with anecdotal treasures.”“It could have been written only by a ‘bookman,’ ” he added, “someone with printer’s ink in his blood and bones.”An earlier version of this obituary misstated the surname of a former executive editor of the Book-of-the-Month Club, where Mr. Silverman was an executive for many years. He is Larry Shapiro, not Jacobs.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnThe N.F.L. on Sunday ended months of uncertainty by officially announcing Maroon 5 and the rappers Travis Scott and Big Boi as the lineup for this year’s Super Bowl halftime show.In an indication of how fraught the debate around the high-profile performance has become, Scott released a statement on Sunday announcing that he and the N.F.L. will partner on a $500,000 donation to the social justice group Dream Corps — a move that seemed to be aimed at stemming a backlash from groups that have criticized the football league’s policies.Sources familiar with the N.F.L.’s Super Bowl plans had confirmed the rock band Maroon 5 as the headliner as long ago as September, and Scott emerged last month as a reported addition to the Feb. 3 halftime performance at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. Big Boi, the newest name on the bill, is a member of the Atlanta rap group Outkast.But the run-up to this year’s halftime announcement had turned into a skirmish over sports and politics, as artists and others criticized the N.F.L. over its treatment of Colin Kaepernick and other players who have taken a knee during the national anthem in protest of racial injustice.In February, the rapper Cardi B, who was featured on Maroon 5’s hit “Girls Like You” last year, told the celebrity news website TMZ that she would consider performing at a halftime show “when they hire Colin Kaepernick back.”In a song released last June, Jay-Z rapped, “I said no to the Super Bowl, you need me, I don’t need you.”Scott’s involvement, specifically, has prompted criticism from some. In an interview with TMZ, the Rev. Al Sharpton said he thought Scott “should do what a lot of other major artists have done — say, ‘I’m not going to participate.’”“You can’t fight against Jim Crow and then go sit in the back of the bus,” he added.In a pair of tweets, the rapper Meek Mill responded to the news that Scott would be performing with, “For what????” and “He don’t need that he on fire already!”And Gerald Griggs, first vice president of the Atlanta chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., told The Guardian that the chapter had contacted artists and asked them not to perform. “The majority of artists we’ve reached out to are standing in solidarity against the N.F.L.,” Griggs said. “They do not want to be associated because of the protest that was started by Mr. Kaepernick against racial injustice and police brutality.”For his part, Van Jones, the president of Dream Corps and a founder of the group, celebrated the announcement in a post on Twitter, addressing Scott by his handle.“This is great news!” Jones wrote. “Welcome, @trvisXX. Glad to have you with us, brother!”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanRing in the new year with some organization inspiration, courtesy of Marie Kondo, and the first-ever “Doctor Who” New Year’s Day special.TIDYING UP WITH MARIE KONDO on Netflix. If you want to start 2019 with a clean slate, Netflix’s new original series may provide some inspiration, courtesy of the minimalist queen of clean Marie Kondo. In the eight-episode series, the author of “The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up” puts her advice into practice, visiting the homes of people who desperately want to declutter and identify the belongings that “spark joy.”DOCTOR WHO NEW YEAR’S DAY SPECIAL 8 p.m. on BBC America. The 13th doctor returns for the first “Doctor Who” New Year’s Day special. The time lord (Jodie Whittaker) and her companions must defend Earth from “the most dangerous creature in the universe.” And, based on the “ex-ter-mi-nate!” heard in the episode’s teaser, she might be facing off against some familiar foes: the Daleks. The hourlong episode “Resolution” follows an eight-day “Doctor Who” marathon.COLLEGE FOOTBALL on ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC. New Year’s Day promises hours of college football, with 10 teams competing in bowl games. You can catch the Outback Bowl in Tampa, Fla., at 12 p.m. on ESPN2, and the Citrus Bowl from Orlando, Fla., at 1 p.m. on ABC. On ESPN, LSU teams up against the University of Central Florida in the Fiesta Bowl at 1 p.m., Washington plays Ohio State in the Rose Bowl at 5 p.m., and No. 15 Texas takes on the No. 5-ranked Georgia Bulldogs at 8:45 p.m. in the Sugar Bowl.AKC NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on Animal Planet. See canines of all kinds strut their stuff in one of the largest televised dog shows. This four-hour broadcast features breeds from around the world vie not just for best in show but in obedience and agility events, like dock diving and rally. Celebrity dog owners will also get in on the action, with the TV host Mario Lopez and the Olympian Shawn Johnson acting as representatives for their pets’ respective groups.LOVE, GILDA (2018) 9 and 11 p.m. on CNN. This moving documentary tribute to the comedian Gilda Radner makes its television debut. With the help of Radner’s notes and journals, as well as personal audio recordings and videos, the filmmaker Lisa D’Apolito shares stories from Radner’s life, from her work on “Saturday Night Live” to the health struggles that led to her death in 1989, at age 42. The program also features interviews with her close friends Chevy Chase and Lorne Michaels, as well as other “S.N.L.” alums influenced by her work, like Bill Hader, Amy Poehler and Maya Rudolph. In his review, the critic Jason Zinoman of The New York Times called “Love, Gilda” “a very affectionate reminder of her brief and brilliant career, a heartfelt love letter whose title might be more accurate without the comma.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy and Kevin DraperBy several important measurements, the Pacific-12 Conference, the college sports league that calls itself “the conference of champions,” did not have a very good year.For the third time in five seasons, no Pac-12 team made the College Football Playoff. The conference had just three entrants in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, and all of them bowed out in the first round. Former athletic directors publicly criticized the league office for being out of touch. There was even a report that a conference official inappropriately intervened in a video replay review during a crucial football game.The Pac-12 football champion, Washington, played Ohio State in the Rose Bowl on Tuesday, losing by 28-23. And although that game remains valuable for many Pac-12 fans in terms of heritage and tradition (and for the conference in terms of money), it nonetheless represents another end-of-season consolation game for the league, which houses the traditional power Southern California and more recent contenders like Stanford, Oregon and Utah.At the root of these travails is money.As the other four power conferences, especially the Big Ten and the Southeastern Conference, have struck lucrative media deals to infuse their members with revenue in recent years, the Pac-12 has failed to keep up. That’s despite a footprint that includes four of the country’s 15 largest media markets, including the second-largest, Los Angeles. Since Larry Scott was hired as commissioner in 2009, Pac-12 revenue has grown to $500 million from $100 million, and the average amount each member school receives from the conference has nearly quadrupled. But compared with the other four Power 5 conferences, the Pac-12 still lags behind. It was last in the amount of money it distributed to members in 2009, and second to last in 2016. It will likely soon be last again, when the ACC Network is launched next year.Average distribution per school*$50 millionSEC40Big TenBig 12Pac-1230A.C.C.20100’09’10’11’12’13’14’15’16Data Source: Form 990s that all five conferences file annually with the Internal Revenue Service* Only schools that received a full, not a partial, payout were included.Average distribution per school*$50 millionSEC40Big TenBig 12Pac-1230A.C.C.20100’09’16Data Source: Form 990s that all five conferences fileannually with the Internal Revenue Service* Only schools that received a full, not a partial,payout were included.By The New York Times“Short term, we’ve fallen behind,” Pac-12 Commissioner Larry Scott said in an interview in December. “There’s no question about it.”Without the same financial resources as their competitors, many Pac-12 colleges have struggled to compete when it comes to hiring the top coaches, building the glitzy facilities and recruiting the star players that yield greater success. “It’s a virtuous cycle: better players, better media deals, more money through the conference, more money to spend on your program and coaches and all the accouterments that go along with a good program,” said Warren Zola, a sports business professor at Boston College’s Carroll School of Management.The financial shortfall is largely the product of a bet that Scott — a former captain of the Harvard tennis team — and the Pac-12 made seven years ago while negotiating a series of multibillion-dollar media rights agreements and starting a conference network.Unlike the commissioners of other major college conferences, Scott decided to buck a trend with his conference-owned sports network by opting not to partner with a traditional media company. (Fox, for instance, owns 51 percent of the Big Ten Network.) Instead, Scott kept the Pac-12 Network and its affiliates independent.This has meant forgoing what would likely have been hundreds of millions of dollars over the past several years in rights fees if the Pac-12 had partnered with a traditional media company or renegotiated its current deal more in tune with the rising market for live sports rights. The Pac-12 is also paying tens of millions of dollars to run a cable network out of its own pocket and has limited its distribution options by forgoing the negotiating clout that comes with partnering with a major broadcaster.All of this in exchange for retaining 100 percent ownership in the venture.In 2011, it looked as if Scott might have made a good bet. The Pac-12 sold most of its marquee football and basketball games to Fox and ESPN for about $3 billion over 12 years, more than quadrupling what the two companies had been paying and setting a record for the richest conference contract. But that arrangement has since been eclipsed by TV deals for other leagues. Last year, for instance, the Big Ten announced a new deal, also with Fox and ESPN, worth nearly the same amount as the Pac-12’s deal ($2.64 billion) for half the years (six). So even as the market for college sports rights rises significantly, the Pac-12’s long-term deal effectively locked it into that 2011 rate until the arrangement expires in 2024.Scott insisted that the conference would soon be in a position to surpass its competitors, since the other leagues have deals that stretch into the 2030s. A windfall, Scott predicted, is all but inevitable.“Our bet is that by not extending our rights 10 or 15 years now, come 2024, the wisdom of this approach will be evident,” Scott said.The Pac-12 lived up to its self-appointed moniker during the 2017-18 school year, winning the most championships over all of any league for the 13th straight year, with a total of 12 titles in sports including men’s baseball and women’s gymnastics and tennis. With three national titles already this fall, it will likely do the same this school year.However, titles in volleyball and water polo do not pay the bills, and in the sports that do — football and men’s basketball — the conference of the Trojans and John Wooden has slipped.In absolute terms, the Pac-12 is nowhere near the poor house. Since Scott took over what was then the Pac-10 in 2009, the conference’s revenue has grown to $500 million from $100 million, and the average annual per-school payout to $31 million from $9 million.But Big Ten members anticipate receiving more than $50 million from the conference this fiscal year because of a new television agreement. SEC members get roughly $41 million from the conference. The Pac-12 will most likely soon be last among the five major conferences in the average annual amount received by conference members, also trailing the Big 12 and the Atlantic Coast Conference, after the ACC Network, owned by ESPN, launches next year.More money would come in handy. Washington State’s athletic department owes $85 million after borrowing heavily to renovate its football stadium. Cal has pledged to subsidize more than half the $440 million in debt its athletic department incurred for facilities construction.Salaries for the Pac-12’s head football and men’s basketball coaches lag those of their peers, according to USA Today’s databases. In football, Washington’s Chris Petersen, the best-paid coach in the conference, is 19th over all; four conference head coaches make less than Louisiana State’s defensive coordinator does. In basketball, where salaries generally are smaller, league head coaches are paid more competitively, although big names in the A.C.C., the Big Ten and the Big 12 tend to make more than their counterparts in the Pac-12.Kevin Blue, the athletic director at California-Davis, who was previously a senior associate athletic director at Stanford, said the SEC and the Big Ten “are setting the market” for coaching salaries.Several of the conference’s former athletic directors have publicly accused Scott of being more concerned with pleasing his bosses — university presidents and chancellors — than supporting the directors themselves, who are ostensibly more in touch with the business end of college athletics. One of the Pac-12’s biggest challenges is geography. College sports are a fundamentally easier sell in the vast spaces of the Midwest and the South than they are in the sun- and snow-kissed cities and landscapes of the West.“There are other parts of the country where it doesn’t matter who your team is playing against, you’re going to fill a 90,000-seat stadium,” Scott said. “I don’t have one school like that.”Similarly, several of Scott’s critics complain that the league’s media deal requires frequent Friday night and late Saturday football games, which can be tougher for fans to attend. League coaches, including Petersen, have raised this issue. But changing that is likely impossible, given that the conference’s universities are in the Mountain and Pacific time zones, and roughly seven in 10 television viewers in the United States live in the Central or Eastern time zones.“If you want to get revenues at the same level, then you’ve got to have kickoffs in East Coast prime time,” said Lee Berke, a sports media consultant. “And unless your schools are located there, they will never be in that position.”Given those disadvantages, the Pac-12 and its eponymous TV network have tried to lean into the conference’s superiority in a wide range of Olympic and nonrevenue sports beyond football and basketball. The national Pac-12 Network and its six regional affiliates show about 850 events a year, almost double the Big Ten Network.“We have a network that allows us to project our identity and the full breadth of our sports,” said Michael Crow, the long-serving president of Arizona State (who lettered in track and field at Iowa State). Crow is one of three Pac-12 presidents or chancellors remaining from the group that hired Scott in 2009. “It’s fantastic that women’s volleyball and softball and athlete profiles are going out across the whole western United States on a network we control.”But although it is now in its fifth year, the Pac-12 Network faces difficulty reaching viewers. It has never been carried by DirectTV, which delivers television to about 20 million households and is the provider of choice for many bars and restaurants. Half a million homes, according to one estimate, lost the Pac-12 Network after the channel was recently dropped from AT&T’s U-Verse. Over all, the network and its affiliates are in about 19 million homes nationwide, according to SNL Kagan, a business research firm, compared with 59 million for the SEC Network and 51 million for the Big Ten Network. Revenue follows accordingly; the Pac-12 Network generated about $2.75 million for each of the conference’s colleges last year, while Big Ten schools received around four times as much. “We absolutely recognize we are taking a bolder and different path than everyone else,” Scott said. “The safest would be to do what everyone else has done: take a partner in your network, extend your rights to 2035.”Instead, the Pac-12 hopes it has an ace in the hole. Come 2024, it will be the only major conference with all of its rights up for grabs — a moment, perhaps, of rare leverage.Scott speculated that in addition to traditional television broadcasters like ESPN, Fox, CBS and NBC, digital companies will compete to buy the Pac-12’s rights. He name-checked just about all of them: Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Google, Netflix, DAZN and ESPN+.“Come 2024, the wisdom of this approach will be evident,” he said. “There’s no guarantee, but that’s the bet that we’ve made.” The promise of future riches can be cold comfort for Pac-12 universities during their present-day struggles.“I get it,” said Steve Patterson, a former Arizona State athletic director. “The coach has to win every week, or three times a week, and the A.D.s have to manage it every year.”But Patterson, who is now a consultant, is optimistic. “I do think, in the long run, it is going to pay off,” he said. “But like building any business, it’s not simple. Taking a check is simple.”Marc Tracy has covered college sports for The Times since 2014. Previously he worked at Tablet Magazine and The New Republic.  @marcatracy Kevin Draper is a sports business reporter, covering the leagues, owners, unions, stadiums and media companies behind the games. Prior to joining The Times, he was an editor at Deadspin.  @kevinmdraper AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaFIFA is pressing ahead with plans to expand the 2022 World Cup despite the concerns of some officials in the host nation, Qatar, whose support the project requires. The move, a politically perilous project but one heavily backed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, would grow soccer’s biggest championship to 48 teams ahead of schedule and require navigating some treacherous regional rivalries.Under the plan currently being considered, most matches in the 2022 tournament would still be held in Qatar — which won the rights to a 32-team event and continues to prepare for one — but other games would take place in Kuwait and Oman as part of a broader Middle Eastern World Cup. Infantino’s expansion would not send games to countries that are currently leading a political and economic blockade of Qatar, like the United Arab Emirates.Infantino, elected FIFA president in 2016 and seeking re-election to a four-year term in June, has been among the biggest proponents of an expanded World Cup that, through increased places for FIFA’s member associations and increased sponsorship revenues, could prove popular among countries that rarely get to compete in the tournament.A final call on the idea was expected to be made next week when FIFA’s governing council meets in Miami, but Infantino has decided to move the final decision to FIFA’s annual Congress in June, where he is standing unopposed for re-election.Should Qatar agree to the change — its consent is required — and should logistical challenges be overcome, Infantino would most likely seek the approval of FIFA’s 211 member federations, a grouping long known for rubber-stamping policies favored by the president. He had said previously that the decision would be taken up by the smaller FIFA Council, which governs the sport worldwide.FIFA and Qatar’s World Cup organizers did not comment on the matter.Privately though, some senior members of the organizing committee who have been working on the event since Qatar controversially secured it a decade ago are opposed to sharing the competition and frustrated that it may yet happen. Qatar’s final position on the matter will be defined by its rulers, who may see political advantage in agreeing to include specific neighbors.While Infantino has suggested that sharing games with Qatar’s neighbors would help heal rifts in the region, a FIFA-led group conducting a feasibility study has concluded that it would be impractical to include the blockading countries, which also include Bahrain, in hosting plans, leaving Oman and Kuwait as favored choices. Infantino recently visited both countries, where he discussed the idea, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Infantino has pushed an expansion of the World Cup at every opportunity in recent years, despite setbacks along the way. He pulled the issue from the agenda at last year’s FIFA Congress amid a backlash from various stakeholders.But Qatar’s posture — it has not publicly rejected an expanded World Cup, even as logistics almost certainly require bringing in partners — has emboldened Infantino to forge ahead to secure the expanded format, which has been adopted for the 2026 World Cup and beyond. Qatar 2022 organizers have said since last summer that they will reserve judgment on a 48-team tournament until a comprehensive study has been carried out.Infantino has vacillated when asked about the intensity of his push for a 48-team World Cup, veering between sporting justifications that center on growing interest in the sport and politically hopeful ones that suggest it could ease political tensions in the region.“There are tensions in this particular region, and it’s up to their respective leaders to deal with that, but maybe it’s easier to talk about a joint football project than more complicated things,” Infantino said in January. “If it can help all the people in the Gulf and all the countries in the world develop football and bring a positive message to the world about football, then you should give it a try.”Kuwait and Oman have remained largely neutral during the Gulf crisis, which has been characterized by bitterness and often petty behavior between opposing countries. That enmity was laid bare at the recently completed Asian Cup, where Qatar routed host United Arab Emirates in a final that was played in a poisonous atmosphere and will be remembered for the scores of shoes and other types of footwear that rained down from the bleachers toward Qatar’s players as they celebrated goals in a 4-0 victory. With flights blocked between the countries, Qatari players traveled to the tournament via Oman, while its fans were largely barred from attending.The travel restrictions are also a concern for World Cup organizers who had banked on thousands of supporters traveling to the event from Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.There are several logistical hurdles to clear for an expanded tournament. FIFA officials have ruled that Qatar, smaller in size than Connecticut, won’t be able to absorb the additional games, and now must decide if neighboring countries possess infrastructure that meets its exacting demands.Potential hurdles include a ban on serving alcohol in Kuwait as well as the provision of training venues and airports.Separately, FIFA will have to work out how to add 16 more games into a schedule that has been reduced to 29 days to appease European soccer leagues left furious by moving the tournament from its traditional June-July calendar to November-December because of the ferocious summer temperatures in the Gulf.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelLAKE FOREST, Ill. — During practice last Thursday afternoon, Tarik Cohen caught a punt. Still clutching the ball, he proceeded to catch another. And another. And another. And another. And another.And another.By the end of this wacky experiment, Cohen was cradling seven balls — one, roughly, for every role he has with the Chicago Bears.Cohen is — O.K., deep breath — the Bears’ handoff-taking, punt-returning, ball-catching, pass-throwing, mismatch-creating, gasp-inducing, highlight-monopolizing cyborg. A year after becoming the first rookie since Gale Sayers, a former Bear, in 1965, to contribute touchdowns by running, receiving, passing and punt return, Cohen has further obliterated concerns that a 5-foot-6 running back from the humble Football Championship Subdivision would struggle transitioning to the N.F.L.’s rugged N.F.C. North.[Wild-Card Weekend: Our Predictions for the N.F.L. Playoffs]If the quarterback-wrecking edge rusher Khalil Mack embodies a defense that has fueled the Bears’ worst-to-first ascent — as the N.F.C.’s third seed, they’ll face the No. 6-seeded Eagles in the wild-card round on Sunday, their first playoff appearance since 2010 — Cohen personifies the offense installed by the team’s first-year coach, Matt Nagy: creative, unpredictable and, at times, downright fun. Nagy has maximized Cohen’s speed, suddenness and receiving skills by aligning him around the formation, from the backfield to the inside to the outside, turning him into, in effect, Chicago’s offensive version of Mack: the player opponents must stalk wherever he is on the field. He led the team in catches (71), yards from scrimmage (1,169) and all-purpose yardage (1,599), and was voted onto the All-Pro team as punt returner.“He’s got a lot of strengths and not a lot of weaknesses,” Nagy said. “Having him be a part of what we do and what we scheme is a huge advantage.”Soon after the Bears hired Nagy away from Kansas City, where he served for five seasons on Andy Reid’s staff, Cohen heard that last season the Chiefs featured three players who gained more than 1,000 yards: receiver Tyreek Hill, tight end Travis Kelce and running back Kareem Hunt. Cohen did not know when or how he would get the ball in Chicago, he said, only that he would.“Get me the ball and get me in space,” Cohen said.That just might be his motto. His 170 touches rank second on the team, behind Jordan Howard, the primary rusher. As a runner, Cohen has the seventh-best breakaway percentage in the N.F.L., gaining 44.4 percent of his 444 yards on carries of at least 15 yards, according to Pro Football Focus. As a receiver, Cohen averages 10.2 yards per reception, most among the 20 backs with at least 40 catches, according to Pro Football Reference.As the position has evolved, a hybridized strain of running back has permeated the league, players as comfortable with, and capable of, lining up in the slot or being split wide as they are rushing 20 times per game. Cohen does not run as often as other versatile second-year dynamos like the Panthers’ Christian McCaffrey or the Saints’ Alvin Kamara, but his proficiency in the passing game — his 175 snaps away from the backfield were the most among running backs — has made him, according to Pro Football Focus’s Wins Above Replacement metric, the second-most valuable player at his position, just behind McCaffrey.“I don’t think there’s anything he can’t do,” Bears running back Benny Cunningham said.The Bears’ vast playbook — Minnesota Vikings Coach Mike Zimmer quipped earlier this season that it contained 800 plays — demands Cohen know entire passing concepts because any week he could line up at four or five different spots. His first-year position coach, Charles London, marveled early on at Cohen’s savvy — how he can see a drawing or a video of a play and master his responsibilities on the field in a repetition or two. His improvement as a blocker has helped Chicago disguise its calls, diminishing tendencies that his alignment might have tipped off.“There’s not really a route — at running back or receiver — that he can’t run in this offense,” London said.That was Cohen’s objective during the off-season, he said, when he devoted two days a week to refining routes that come back to the ball, like curls, during seven-on-seven drills with his former North Carolina A&T teammates. He did not want to be branded as only a deep-ball threat, just as he does not want to be perceived as strictly a perimeter runner, someone unwilling — or worse, not stout enough — to run between the tackles.Further evidence: Ask Cohen his top play from this season, and he mentions not the 70-yard screen against the Jets, the 50-yard catch-and-dash at Miami or the overtime-forcing touchdown toss at the Giants. In his mind, all the feints, cutbacks and bursts that evoke his favorite player, Reggie Bush, do not compare to the punt he fielded midway through the first quarter against New England in Week 7, when he stepped left, cut right, then zipped left again, shedding a tackle at his feet before encountering a defender by the boundary squaring up to level him.The contact was brief. The defender crumpled. Cohen did not.“Somebody so small running somebody big over — it makes everybody’s day,” Cohen said.Cohen is short but, listed at 181 pounds, not small. He is thick and sturdy, with disproportionately enormous hands — size 10⅛ from thumb to pinkie, bigger than those of hulking receiving threats like Kelce, Julio Jones and A.J. Green — that help him do things like, say, hold on to seven balls at the same time.Growing up in rural Bunn, N.C., about 30 miles northeast of Raleigh, Cohen specialized in such exploits. For one, he developed his speed — like another Bears playmaker before him — through unorthodox methods. Instead of running through tall, thick grass, as Devin Hester did, Cohen dodged the pit bulls that he said roamed his neighborhood.“It’s fight or flight,” Cohen said. “Either get going or you’re going to get eat, so you’ve got to get out of there.”He did get out of there — to play football, but barely. Had North Carolina A&T, a historically black university, not offered him a scholarship, Cohen would have joined the Navy.Why?“I knew how to swim,” said Cohen, sitting in the Halas Hall lobby before practice one day last week. “And it wasn’t like people were getting killed in the Navy.”Rather than enlist, Cohen opted to dominate the F.C.S. Across his four seasons at A&T, he rushed for a Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference record 5,619 yards, the 10th-most in the history of what was formerly Division I-AA. But when N.F.L. scouts passed through Greensboro, said Shawn Gibbs, his position coach at A&T, some seemed unconvinced.“They just tried to poke holes in everything he did — like, he’s good, but,” Gibbs said. “The guys that were like: ‘Man, this guy can walk under this table. I can’t take him to my G.M.’ Those were the guys that were frustrating.”It was the Bears’ good fortune that their scout who prowls the Southeast, Sam Summerville, attended a historically black college himself. Before even studying Cohen, Summerville admired him as a fan, watching from afar as he rushed for 295 yards — and touchdowns of 74, 83 and 73 yards — against Alcorn State in the Celebration Bowl.The deeper he probed, the more Summerville believed in Cohen. Not as a gadget player, but as an N.F.L. running back. At Summerville’s urging, the Bears deployed additional scouts to evaluate him, and they, too, grew enamored. Still, as they prepped for the 2017 draft, Summerville expected pushback — for everything from Cohen’s statistics, perceived to be inflated by the lesser competition, to his stature. So he relied on emotion as much as reason to convey why they needed him.In an impassioned plea, Summerville showed his colleagues the clip of Cohen catching two balls while doing a back flip. (Yes, really.) He affirmed that rival coaches feared no player more than Cohen. He explained that of the 350 to 400 players he assessed in the fall of 2016, Cohen was “definitely” his favorite.“It got to the point where some of the other scouts may have been rolling their eyes a little bit, like, ‘this guy’s serious,’” Summerville said. “Every time I opened my mouth about him, or every time a question was asked, they were like, ‘Do you think this guy can do this?’ Tarik can do pretty much everything you ask him to.”The Bears chose Cohen with one of their fourth-round selections — they took another foundational player, safety Eddie Jackson, seven picks earlier — and before he even took a snap, Cunningham exhorted his friends to draft him for their fantasy football teams. Many satisfied customers, he said.Over the summer, Summerville reviewed his reports on Cohen, to check whether reality matched projections. It did not. Cohen surpassed them. One after another after another after another.And another.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigelAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA handful of programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while other schools would get caught up in a bidding war they couldn’t afford. By Cody J. McDavisMr. McDavis is a law student and former Division I college basketball player.When the Duke University basketball star Zion Williamson injured his knee in a freak accident in a game on Wednesday, it reignited a debate over whether student-athletes competing as amateurs on college campuses should instead become paid professionals. If Williamson and other elite players like him are going to risk their professional futures by playing college sports, many wonder, shouldn’t they be financially compensated?Paying student-athletes might sound like a fairer way to treat students who generate so much money and attention for their colleges (not to mention the television networks that broadcast their games). But paying athletes would distort the economics of college sports in a way that would hurt the broader community of student-athletes, universities, fans and alumni. A handful of big sports programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while almost every other college would get caught up in a bidding war it couldn’t afford. The 30 largest universities in the country each routinely generate annual revenues exceeding $100 million from sports, but according to the National Collegiate Athletic Association, most of those revenues are spent covering operating expenses for the school’s athletic programs and paying tuition for their student-athletes. The majority of Division I colleges in the N.C.A.A. operate at a loss. In fact, among the roughly 350 athletic departments in the N.C.A.A.’s Division I, only about 24 schools have generated more revenue than expenses in recent years. The nation’s top five conferences made over $6 billion in 2015, billions more than all other schools combined, according to an ESPN analysis of N.C.A.A. data.Forcing the @NCAA to pay student-athletes would ruin college sports, says @CodyMcDavis. Watch his @Instagram Story: https://t.co/a2BY784nO4 and read his Op-Ed:  https://t.co/cFdNkb6tSG pic.twitter.com/BkejmwutNKFor the have-not universities, however, to continue operating means relying on millions of dollars in debt, funding from their main campus and student fees. Even with that help, some of the major athletic departments are struggling. A recent N.C.A.A. study determined that only about 20 of the 1,000 or so college sports programs in the nation were profitable. What is going to happen when the competition to offer students money is supercharged?A federal judge in Northern California, Claudia Wilken, will soon decide if student-athletes should instead be paid more like professionals. At the moment, thanks in part to the pressure exerted by a 2015 ruling by Judge Wilken, top N.C.A.A. athletes can receive scholarships totaling tens of thousands of dollars for tuition, room, board and stipends, as well as cost-of-attendance compensation. But the association still sets a ceiling on those benefits, and a group of Division I basketball and football players is awaiting Judge Wilken’s ruling on whether that ceiling should effectively be lifted.If the plaintiffs in this case are successful, the arms race for top athletes may have no limit. The top 25 or so schools will pay because they can afford to. The remaining 325 or so will be forced to make a decision: not pay their athletes (and risk losing top talent to schools that do) or find a way to pay.We have already had a preview of what happens when schools are put in this position. In August 2015, after the N.C.A.A. began allowing Division I universities to adopt “cost of attendance” stipends, North Dakota State University announced that it would offer such stipends in 16 sports, resulting in a new $600,000 annual expense to be paid by the athletic department. The school’s rival, the University of North Dakota, followed suit six days later. What happened? The University of North Dakota cut five teams over the next two years to help pay for the added expense.The University of Wyoming, too, announced that it would offer stipends to its student-athletes in 2015, resulting in a new expected annual cost of $700,000 to the athletic department. A year later, calls were being made for a reduction in the athletic department because of budgetary concerns. (Those cuts almost certainly would have been made, had it not been for a $4 million subsidy from the state government.)Gene Smith, the athletic director at Ohio State University, has said that if the N.C.A.A. pay ceiling were lifted and he were pushed to pay basketball and football student-athletes more than their full-ride scholarship packages, he would not expect to maintain the same number of sports. The chancellor at the University of Wisconsin, Rebecca Blank, has also said that her school would consider cutting sports programs altogether.Forcing the N.C.A.A. to pay student-athletes would undermine opportunities for the vast majority of them. It would create a winner-take-all system in which only a handful of top recruits would get a paycheck on top of earning a diploma debt-free.Similar problems would arise in the case of so-called third-party payments, in which student-athletes could be paid for things like endorsements. Major brands like Nike would pay top football and basketball talent at the biggest schools, while student-athletes in other sports or at smaller programs would be ignored. Currently, corporate funds go to athletic departments and are generally distributed among all sports; with third-party payments, those funds could instead mostly go directly to a few student-athletes, starving the rest.I am not opposed to young athletes who decide they would prefer to be paid cash to play sports. For those who think that a free education is insufficient as compensation for playing sports, there are other options: The National Basketball Association’s developmental league, for instance, offers $125,000 contracts to top high-school talent. Such athletes can also pursue a career playing for other domestic or overseas professional leagues.Millions of student-athletes devote their sweat, blood and tears to sports. Some play football and basketball; others swim, run cross-country, play soccer or compete as gymnasts. Only a fraction of them generate money for their schools. We must ensure that the N.C.A.A. is able to preserve its commitment to all of them.Cody J. McDavis is a student at the U.C.L.A. School of Law who played basketball for the University of Northern Colorado from 2012 to 2015.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementDoncaster Belles used to be women’s soccer royalty, champions of England and a fixture in the F.A. Cup final. Now, as investment floods into the women’s game, a new history is being written without them. CreditCreditAndrew Testa for The New York TimesSupported byBy Rory SmithROSSINGTON, England — Over the years, Sheila Edmunds has done pretty much everything for the Doncaster Belles. Half a century ago, she was among the group of friends who founded the club. For 25 years, she wore the team’s No. 8 jersey and, for a while, its captain’s armband.When she retired, she filled in wherever required: welfare officer, first-aid practitioner, physiotherapist. Now her official title is president and general manager. If that sounds like an executive role, an honorary sinecure, it is not.An hour or so before a game at the windswept stadium that the Belles now call home, Edmunds can be found in the simple wooden cabin that passes for a ticket office. At her back is an electric heater, on futile full blast to stave off the bitter cold. She welcomes fans handing over the £5 entrance fee warmly, as if each one is an old friend.In quiet moments, she might help out at the trestle table that serves as the Belles’ merchandising arm. After kickoff, she keeps one eye on the game as she totals up the day’s takings; it is easier this way, she says. She is the one, after all, who will have to enter it all into the club’s accounts later.There is more money in women’s soccer in England than there has ever been. Last summer, the country’s highest tier — the Women’s Super League (W.S.L.) — became, for the first time, fully professional, with a broadcasting arrangement with the BBC. England’s biggest clubs, including Manchester City, Chelsea and Arsenal, all have invested heavily in their women’s teams in recent years, spending not just on homegrown players but for high-profile imports, too. Manchester United, even, has finally joined the fray: It launched its women’s team, in the second-tier Championship, last year, and immediately set about recruiting an all-star roster.The effect has been seismic, not just in terms of results — Manchester City reached the Champions League semifinals the last two seasons and England’s national team finished third in the 2015 Women’s World Cup — but in terms of interest, too. More than 45,000 people attended last season’s women’s F.A. Cup final, and two million more watched it live on television.Little or none of that growth, though, has found its way to Doncaster; or, more accurately, Rossington, a small village on the outskirts of the town, where Doncaster Rovers Belles play their home games in the third tier of English women’s soccer.Crowds rarely number much more than a hundred here. There are no television cameras. Last summer, the club’s biggest sponsor walked away; its income now does not stretch far beyond the cash Edmunds sifts through in front of that electric heater.And yet this is the team that has, arguably, done more for women’s soccer in England than any other, a club that was synonymous with the sport for decades. In the 1980s and early 1990s, long before the professional clubs showed any interest in women’s soccer, the Belles were its pre-eminent force.Between 1983 and 1994, the Belles reached 11 of 12 women’s F.A. Cup finals, and won the trophy six times. The team won the first ever women’s national league title, in 1992, and regained the crown in 1994; it would finish as runners-up seven times in the following years.Back then, its players formed the backbone of the English national team. “At one point, we had seven or eight players in the squad,” said Gillian Coultard, who spent 21 years playing for the Belles in the team’s heyday, and picked up 119 appearances for England. For a long time, she was one of five players to have made a century of appearances for her country. The others were Bobby Moore, Bobby Charlton, Peter Shilton and Billy Wright. “It was a good quiz question,” she said.Doncaster, of course, was proud of the Belles: A small, tight-knit town on the edge of the South Yorkshire coalfield, it is not a place that attracts much national attention, or frequently enjoys much sporting success. The Belles changed that. “We won so much,” Coultard said. “The cup finals were on television. We felt like we represented Doncaster, and South Yorkshire. We kept the town at the pinnacle.”Edmunds remembers the club being asked to send representatives to have “afternoon tea with the Queen and Prince Philip” when they visited Doncaster. The players were guests of honor at the town’s Mansion House, the ornate Georgian home of the local authorities, on several occasions.“We never had any sexist stuff,” she said. “South Yorkshire people aren’t like that. It’s the sort of place where they acknowledge what people can do. They get behind you. There was a real pride at what we achieved.”There was broader, cultural recognition, too. The writer Pete Davies spent a year with the team in the early 1990s; his subsequent book, “I Lost My Heart to the Belles,” coupled with the club’s success, made the name famous. The playwright Kay Mellor used the book as source material for “Playing the Field,” a BBC drama that ran for five seasons in the 1990s.To many, at a time when women’s soccer received scant investment and commanded little attention, the Belles were the sport’s most prominent face. “They were the epitome of women’s football,” said Mike Blackham. Like most of the people who go to watch the Belles now, Blackham and his wife, Jane, have a personal connection to the club: A friend plays for the first team.That is testament to how the club’s horizons have retracted in recent years. As the fortunes of women’s soccer have risen, those of the Belles have ebbed. “The women’s game has changed,” Edmunds said. “It is more financially driven. We have been left behind a little bit.”In 2013, when the Football Association, the sport’s governing body in Britain, expanded the Women’s Super League to two divisions, Doncaster Belles were demoted to the second tier and Manchester City’s women’s team — far younger but, crucially, aligned with a Premier League behemoth — were promoted in their stead. Vic Akers, then the manager of Arsenal Ladies, described the decision as “morally scandalous.”Doncaster was promoted back to the top flight in 2015, but lasted only a season before being relegated again. It won the second division last year, its first trophy since 1994, but did not take up its place in the top tier: The F.A. had changed the licensing criteria, and the Belles — lacking a headline sponsor and a major men’s team to bankroll the club — could not meet the new requirements. “Financially, we could not do it,” Edmunds said.All but two members of the championship-winning side departed, many for Manchester United’s new women’s team. Neil Redfearn, the manager, left for Liverpool. The Belles decided against using the Keepmoat Stadium, the neat, modern venue that is home to Doncaster Rovers, the men’s team with which they have a mostly symbolic alliance, and set up instead in Rossington, where the two stands are little more than a few steps covered by a roof. Smaller surroundings, Edmunds said, would not be as “daunting” for the young players that now comprised the team.In Doncaster, the Belles’ fame endures, and so does the affection and esteem in which they are held. Edmunds, for example, is well-known enough in the town that, a few years ago, when she was awarded an honor in London for her contribution to sport, the local paper afforded her the ultimate accolade: It referred to her by only her first name.Blackham, who coaches a local junior team, finds that while young boys dream of Premier League stardom, the girls tend to have a different ambition. “They don’t talk about playing for Manchester City or Chelsea or Arsenal,” he said. “They want to play for the Belles.”There is some regret at the club’s diminished status — “the demise of it is very sad, because it was so unique,” said Coultard — but there is no resentment of the game’s authorities, no lingering anger at the Football Association for failing to curate the most famous women’s team of all. “That era has gone,” Edmunds said. “We do not want people to forget that history, because so many people put so much into it, but we do not dwell on it.”Instead, she said, she takes satisfaction in seeing all of the players who came through the club’s ranks who have gone on to play professionally, to play in Europe, to play for their country.The golden age of the Belles may have come and gone, Edmunds said, but the club still has a role to play. “You look at those players and think we must be doing something right,” she said. “We still contribute. There is real pride in that.”Those Belles may be wearing different jerseys now, playing for different clubs, but they still bear the stamp of the club she helped to create. They all add a little more sheen to the legacy. In Edmunds’s eyes, they are still Belles. “That’s what we have always said,” she said, turning back to the day’s takings. “Once a Belle, always a Belle.”Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.  @RorySmith AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyThe N.C.A.A. said on Saturday that it was appealing a Federal District Court’s decision this month that barring athletes from being paid beyond a scholarship and related costs violated antitrust law.“We believe, and the Supreme Court has recognized, that N.C.A.A. member schools and conferences are best positioned to strengthen and revise their rules to better support student-athletes, rather than forcing these issues into continuous litigation,” Donald Remy, the N.C.A.A.’s chief legal officer, said in a statement.Remy said the decision to appeal, by the N.C.A.A. and the major college conferences named as defendants in the suit, was unanimous.The ruling this month by Judge Claudia Wilken in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California was actually far more favorable to the N.C.A.A. than the plaintiffs, a class of Division I men’s and women’s basketball players and football players, had hoped.The suit, known as Alston after a lead plaintiff, argued that the N.C.A.A.’s rules barring payments to players — the center of what the association terms the collegiate model, and what is broadly known as amateurism — was illegal collusion. It asked the court to declare as much, and to eliminate all such rules, leaving it up to individual conferences to set caps independently if they so chose.Instead, while Judge Wilken agreed that the rules were illegal, she found that an alternative, in which the N.C.A.A. continued to restrict payments unless they were tied to education, was acceptable. Under her ruling, colleges could give athletes items like computers, but the N.C.A.A. could continue to bar them from receiving cash in express exchange for their athletic contributions.Judge Wilken cited a 2015 ruling from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in a similar case, in which a three-judge panel partially insisted that payment to athletes be “tethered to education.” The same appellate court — albeit probably three different judges — would hear this appeal.While the N.C.A.A. largely welcomed Judge Wilken’s finding when it was handed down, it said on Saturday that it sought more: to get the courts out of regulating college athletics as much as possible.“While the district court upheld the distinction between full-time students who play college sports and professional athletes, it erred by giving itself authority to micromanage decisions about education-related support,” Remy said.Jeffrey Kessler, a lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said of the appeal in a text message on Saturday morning: “We are not surprised. It was a major defeat for the N.C.A.A.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersGrowing up in an outer borough, when the outer boroughs were far from cool.To the Editor:Re “I Remember When Queens Was Lame,” by Barbara Brotman (Sunday Review, Feb. 17):In college, I can’t say I shouted from the mountaintops that I hailed from Queens. I wasn’t ashamed, but neither was I proud. Back in the day, I remember cutting high school and taking the subway to the Village to experience, if only briefly, a different slice of life. The city was grittier back then, literally with grime and pollution, but also with higher crime or just the sotto voce offers in Washington Square of “Hey, man, want some acid?” But I wouldn’t trade my Queens days for anything. Our unrivaled, however simple, cuisine — arguably the best pizza and bagels in town. Playing ball every day: basketball in the backyard of a friend who was lucky enough to have a hoop; football under Friday night lights in the supermarket parking lot, its stripes used to determine first downs; and baseball in the streets, where we relied on manhole covers, car taillights and the like for bases. And, of course, the great friends, alas too few of whom I’ve kept up with over the years.Neil G. BennettStamford, Conn.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaABU DHABI — Qatar forward Almoez Ali joined a small group of record-makers at the Asian Cup last week, becoming only the fourth player in the tournament’s history to score four goals in a single game. His exploits in his country’s 6-0 thrashing of North Korea were cheered by just one fan sporting the Gulf country’s colors.That was one more than team officials expected.That is because the Asian Cup is being played this month in the United Arab Emirates, one of the main players in the punishing Saudi Arabia-led blockade of Qatar that began in 2017 and already has led to inconveniences for visiting Qatari officials, visiting Qatari journalists and, clearly, given their tiny number, visiting Qatari fans. The looming specter of the political dispute has produced a surreal air around Qatar’s matches, one that is expected to be repeated at its showdown against Saudi Arabia on Thursday at Zayed City Sports Stadium.Because of the geopolitical implications, that match could be one of the most-watched games of the tournament, though it will most likely not include many, if any, Qataris in the stands. The official attendance figure for the Qatar-North Korea game on Sunday in Al Ain was announced as 452, though several people who attended said the actual number most likely was closer to 100. Similarly low attendance figures have been a feature of the tournament, Asia’s most important soccer championship, in its first two weeks.The one flag-waving fan in Qatar’s maroon colors Sunday was a South Korean woman who had traveled from her homeland to root for Qatar, according to Qatari officials. Two other unidentified men sat nearby behind a Qatari flag, a rare spot of color in a sea of white seats. The sparse crowd only avoided setting another tournament record, for the lowest attendance, because of two groups of fans bused in by North Korea’s delegation.The soporific atmosphere most likely will give way to something far different and far more political when Qatar and Saudi Arabia meet to decide the winner of Group E. The countries have not met on the soccer field since diplomatic ties between the countries were severed 18 months ago, but the game’s location in this Emirate capital adds another layer of tension.“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign-affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”Political intrigue large and small is nothing new at the Asian Cup. On Tuesday, Palestine played Jordan, which has been home to Palestinian refugees for over half a century. A day later, Iran faced Iraq. Yemen, which is on the brink of famine amid a prolonged Saudi-led assault on Houthi rebels, is among the first-time participants in the event.This year’s tournament also has been accompanied by significant issues in the soccer world. The A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, a member of the Bahraini royal family, has been assailed over his silence about the fate of Hakeem al-Araibi, a refugee soccer player of Bahraini descent who was detained in Thailand on the orders of Bahrain’s government. And the event is the latest staging point for discussions related to FIFA President Gianni Infantino’s desire to expand the 2022 Qatar World Cup to 48 teams, a move that almost certainly would require Qatar to share games with countries currently leading the blockade, as well as a simmering battle for the leadership of the A.F.C. Sheikh Salman faces two challengers: one from Qatar, and another from the U.A.E.But the main crisis at this year’s Asian Cup remains the ongoing blockade of Qatar. The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, which they have accused of financing terrorism, interfering in their domestic affairs and growing too close to Iran. The countries were especially incensed by Qatar’s support for a range of activists across the Arab world, including the political Islamists that other Gulf monarchs consider a threat to their rule.Qatar’s leaders have denied the accusations of interference and of financing terrorism, arguing that it is their country’s independence that has most angered their neighbors. But the blockade’s effects on the tournament is not difficult to spot.Saoud al-Mohannadi, a Qatari and the Asian Football Confederation’s senior official responsible for the tournament, was initially barred from traveling to the U.A.E. on the eve of the competition. Initially prevented from boarding a flight from Oman, he was allowed through a day later. Five journalists cleared to cover the event by the A.F.C. weren’t so lucky; they were turned back upon arrival, though one photographer was allowed in. (Saudi Arabia has 47 print reporters accredited for the tournament.)Local organizers and the Abu Dhabi Sports Council were not made available for interviews. Neither group responded to emailed questions related to the tournament.Complicating matters further is the tournament’s television agreement. Qatar’s beIN Sports holds the broadcast rights for the event, but several top hotels, including the guest rooms of the Fairmont, where A.F.C.’s official delegation is based, and the hotels adjacent to the stadiums refuse to air beIN’s lineup of channels.Since the start of the crisis, beIN’s broadcasts — matches for which it has paid hundreds of millions of dollars for the exclusive rights — have been pirated by entity known as beoutQ, which Qatar contends is based in Saudi Arabia. As it did during last summer’s World Cup, beoutQ is broadcasting the Asian Cup in its entirety, overlaying beIN’s logo with its own.Asian Cup organizers have issued statements of frustration and threats of legal action, with little effect. In Bahrain, Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al-Khalifa, a son of the country’s ruler, posted a video on Instagram this week of his reaction to his country’s last-minute triumph against India on Monday. His chosen broadcaster, made clear by the logo on the screen, was beoutQ. (The A.F.C’s president is a member of Bahrain’s royal family.)On the eve of the game, beIN launched a website that outlined evidence against the channel, which it describes as a Saudi-supported operation.The broader dispute has been visible inside stadiums, too; at several, the partnership between the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia in opposition to Qatar is on display in banners that display both countries’ flags and a set of shaking hands.What will happen on the field Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium remains anyone’s guess. At an under-19 game between the U.A.E. and Qatar in October, the Emirati captain refused to shake hands with his Qatari counterpart at the pregame coin toss.Qatari officials and players have tried to play down the political cloud hanging over their presence. They say they are focused on improving ahead of the next men’s World Cup, which Qatar will host in 2022.On Tuesday, Qatar’s players appeared to be in good humor as they ran out to practice around sunset at a local field in Abu Dhabi, joking and teasing one another as a group of Spanish coaches put them through their paces. Apart from having no fans present at its games, the team has not faced any issues with the A.F.C. and local tournament organizers, according to a spokesman for the Qatari soccer federation, Ali al-Salat. But the players were briefed to avoid discussing politics ahead of the Saudi Arabia match.“You might look at it as special, but in our case it’s not that special,” midfielder Salem al Hajri said in a short interview as he prepared to join Tuesday’s training session.Asked about the political implications of the game, Saudi Arabia’s captain and its coach both demurred, saying those thoughts were for others.“We are thinking exclusively on the sports part of the game tomorrow,” said Juan Antônio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach. “Whatever the surrounding issues, we are not entitled to talk about things off the field.”Al Hajri and his Qatar teammates are guaranteed at least one supporter. The South Korean woman at the team’s first two matches, Mary Lee, confirmed that she would attend. Her relationship with the team is a curious one; al-Salat said she has links to the Qatar embassy in South Korea.“We appreciate the support because she’s the only fan who holds the Qatari flag in the U.A.E.,” al-Salat said. In normal times, she would be joined by at least 2,000 Qatari fans, he said, but the regular flights between Qatar’s capital, Doha, and Abu Dhabi have also been shut down by the blockade.Qataris now need special clearance and two layers of vetting to travel into the Emirates, where many have family members. But without direct flights between the countries, fans interesting in traveling to the Asian Cup would be required to fly through another country — typically Oman or Kuwait — as the national team was required to do on its way here. (Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family who leads the soccer federation, has based himself in Oman and flies in for his team’s games.)Saudi’s soccer federation, meanwhile, has secured thousands of tickets for its games, but their fans’ presence has had little effect at a tournament notable for its paltry attendance figures. The lack of fans has created a strange atmosphere inside the stadiums, with loud music echoing around largely empty arenas and M.C.s who exhort those present to “make some noise.”Despite tickets priced as low as about $7, even neutral fans are staying away. Several migrant workers, a group that heavily outnumbers U.A.E. nationals in Abu Dhabi, said their biggest obstacle was not ticket prices or geopolitical intrigue but something far more basic: As one Nigerian taxi driver said, he was just too busy.“I’m always at work,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Ken BelsonATLANTA — Ten days after a controversial noncall marred the ending of the N.F.C. championship game, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell finally addressed it publicly, acknowledging that the officials had blown the call.“It is a play that should be called,” he said at his annual state of the league address on Wednesday. “Whenever officiating is part of any kind of discussion postgame, it is never a good outcome for us. We know that, our clubs know that, our officials know that.”Late in the fourth quarter in a tied N.F.C. championship game on Jan. 20, with New Orleans deep in Los Angeles territory, Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman hit Saints wide receiver Tommylee Lewis before he could attempt to catch a pass. Robey-Coleman could have been called for pass interference or helmet-to-helmet contact, but instead was called for neither.The Saints went on to kick a field goal but left enough time on the clock for the Rams to tie the score and send the game into overtime, where Los Angeles won.The league had refused to comment publicly on the play for more than a week, but Saints Coach Sean Payton said shortly after the game that Al Riveron, the N.F.L.’s director of officiating, had told him officials got the call wrong. Robey-Coleman was later fined for a helmet-to-helmet hit.“We understand the frustration of the fans,” Goodell said Wednesday before detailing the extensive contacts the league had with the Saints, including their owner, Gayle Benson.“Coach Payton spoke to Al Riveron, our head of officiating, immediately after the game,” Goodell said. “Al told him that is a play we want to have called. I have spoken to him. Troy Vincent, the head of football ops, has spoken to him. I have spoken to Mrs. Benson. The coach has also talked to the head of the competition committee, Rich McKay.”Asked if he had considered ordering the game replayed from the point of the missed call, Goodell said, “Absolutely not.” He also noted the league rule book states that the results of games should not be overturned because of routine officiating errors.Goodell said the league’s competition committee would consider changes to instant replay to address such calls, but he added that in the past there had been little appetite to allow replay officials to call penalties on plays where no flag was thrown. He also said he did not think adding an eighth official was a good solution.“I don’t think adding an official is an answer to all of the issues, and particularly this issue,” Goodell said.Goodell’s 40-minute question-and-answer session was dominated by the play in New Orleans, but Goodell also was asked about a number of other hot-button topics, including Colin Kaepernick; the effectiveness of the league’s Rooney Rule in diversifying coaching staffs; President Trump; the messy inheritance fight over the Denver Broncos; and league investigations of the players Kareem Hunt and Reuben Foster.The most pointed question invoked Atlanta’s past as a hub of the civil rights movement, and how history will judge Kaepernick’s continued absence from the league. Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, has filed a grievance accusing owners of colluding to keep him out of the N.F.L. because of his social activism.Goodell said the league office had no role in the personnel decisions of individual teams. “Our clubs are the ones that make decisions on players that they want to have on their roster,” he said, adding, “That is something we as the N.F.L. take pride in.”He also was asked if the league’s Rooney Rule, which requires teams to interview at least one minority candidate for head coach openings, was still effective. The rule was strengthened in December, but the number of minority coaches in the league has dropped precipitously after four black head coaches were fired after the season.Goodell said the league did not view the success or failure of the Rooney Rule, which was adopted in 2003, in one-year increments. He said the league was talking with coaches about how to provide greater opportunities to minority coaches, and announced that a quarterback summit would be held in June at Morehouse College, a historically black college in Atlanta, to train new coaches.The commissioner refused to take the bait when asked about President Trump, who said two years ago that the N.F.L. should allow more and harder hits. Goodell noted the irony of his being asked about officials throwing too many flags at a news conference dominated by criticism of a game in which a flag was not thrown, before saying simply that the N.F.L. strives for games to be officiated at the “highest level.”Asked about the ongoing fight in Denver over the inheritance of the Broncos, Goodell said that it was “sad when disputes like this occur,” but that he could not say much publicly because the league office could have to adjudicate the dispute.Finally, Goodell said league investigations into Foster and Hunt were continuing. Foster, a linebacker, was released by the 49ers after being arrested on domestic violence charges for a second time, then was signed by the Washington Redskins. Charges against Foster have been dropped, but Goodell said Foster still could be punished under the league’s personal conduct policy.Hunt, a running back, was released by the Kansas City Chiefs in November after TMZ published video showing him pushing and kicking a woman. He remains unsigned. A New York Times investigation revealed that the N.F.L., despite interviewing Hunt earlier in the year, failed to question him about the incident. Goodell said there had been a “tremendous amount of progress” made in the investigation in the last 30 to 60 days, though he did not detail what that progress entailed.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonTom Brady, the five-time Super Bowl champion quarterback of the New England Patriots, came to Massachusetts via San Mateo, Calif., and the University of Michigan.He is married to the supermodel Gisele Bündchen and has owned a luxury apartment in Manhattan, where their family spent much time in the off-season. He endorses UGG, the Australian apparel company, and he published a book about his life as a diet and health nut whose favorite dessert is a dairy-free avocado ice cream, a flavor not readily available at J.P. Licks or any other popular Boston ice cream haven.Despite all of this, which would figure to turn off the people in a region known, perhaps unfairly, for its insularity and, perhaps fairly, for its hatred of pretension, Brady is now the most favorite son of New England. How he managed to pull that off, to become bigger than Ted Williams and Larry Bird, and even Big Papi, David Ortiz, has more to do with timing, some key lifestyle decisions and a certain fight with the N.F.L. over deflated footballs than his mounting collection of Super Bowl rings.“If you were drawing a sports cartoon and it showed a train and each car in the train represented one of the recent Boston championships,” said Richard Johnson, the curator of the Sports Museum in Boston, “Brady would be the engineer in the front stoking the fire.”Fans in 44 American states mostly despise Brady and pray to the football gods that his Patriots never win another playoff game. But in New England, it’s almost impossible to overstate Brady’s exalted standing. Putting Brady on par with a Kennedy might be a stretch, but not a huge one.It’s also remarkable that at the end of a season that dawned with the potential for polarizing protests during the national anthem, sagging television ratings and other off-field controversies, it has instead all come back to Brady and his dominance. After nearly two decades, the N.F.L. remains his playground.Partly because of that, the people of the New England region, who largely adopt all Boston teams, are living through an era of unusually high accomplishment: Their professional teams celebrate championships from season to season — as in spring to fall to winter. But in Boston, it always matters to have been the one who started a movement. And like Paul Revere dashing on horseback to ignite a revolution, Brady led the charge that ushered New England sports into the 21st century, and it has been a procession of duck-boat parades down Boylston Street past Boston Common ever since.[An illustrated guide to the N.F.L. playoffs.]Brady’s Patriots won the franchise’s first Super Bowl title at the end of the 2001 N.F.L. season. That was about three years before the 2004 Red Sox reversed the curse with their first World Series victory since 1918, and long before the 2008 Celtics finally escaped Bird’s shadow and won their first N.B.A. championship in more than 20 years. And it was a decade before the 2011 Bruins won the franchise’s first Stanley Cup since 1972.Throughout that time, Brady’s Patriots kept winning. And while there have been other recent, treasured sports heroes in Boston, most notably the still ubiquitous Ortiz, consider this: When the origin story of Boston’s 21st century sports resurrection is told, whose name will be mentioned first?Brady managed to ingratiate himself to the locals quickly when he arrived in 2000. His first home, symbolically, was in Quincy, Mass., a diverse city-suburb where two New England institutions, Dunkin’ Donuts and Howard Johnson’s restaurants, were founded.He was a familiar sight back then, piling groceries in a cart and chatting with other customers at the Quincy Stop & Shop. Restaurants and bars there grew accustomed to seeing him on dates, and even grew protective of him when those outings attracted paparazzi.Another factor that made Brady not just a favorite son of the region but the focal point of a rebellious, us-against-them cause was the bizarre spectacle that came to be known as Deflategate. Not surprisingly, us-against-them has been ingrained in the New England DNA ever since a lot of tea ended up in Boston Harbor about 246 years ago.In 2015, when Brady and the Patriots were investigated by the N.F.L. for using deflated footballs to gain an unfair advantage — with Brady eventually suspended and, by association, labeled a cheater (in roughly 44 states) — New Englanders were outraged by what they saw as outsiders’ bias.“The allegiance to Brady is deep and all the more intense because of the shared feeling he was unfairly stigmatized,” said Doris Kearns Goodwin, the author, historian and longtime New England resident. “Deflategate put Brady’s entire reputation and legacy at risk. Fans here still battle the nonissue with fans elsewhere, and it makes us love him all the more.”Goodwin added that she was recently at a bar in the Philadelphia airport, and everyone except her and one other patron wanted Brady to lose on Sunday.During Deflategate, there was an infamous, ghoulish 2015 courtroom sketch made of Brady as he took part in a federal proceeding. Patriots fans were incensed that the handsome Brady had been rudely denigrated.The courtroom artist apologized repeatedly and created another, more favorable sketch.There are, of course, two other obvious reasons that Brady’s status in New England has been amplified, and they would probably bring him unbridled admiration in any pro sports community.He holds the records for most N.F.L. victories as a starting quarterback (207), most playoff wins (29), most Super Bowl victories by a player (five) and most Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Awards (four).That will breed a lot of loyalty. Brady, for example, is 41 and has been in the N.F.L. for 19 years. You might think that any fan who wanted a replica of his No. 12 jersey would have purchased one by now.Apparently not.Merchandise bearing Brady’s name was the top-selling N.F.L. apparel item this season, with the Boston market driving sales. Since the Patriots clinched their berth in Sunday’s Super Bowl, Brady merchandise has been selling faster — by 40 percent — than it did in the week before any of his previous eight Super Bowl appearances, according to Fanatics, the largest online seller of licensed sports merchandise.He is also married to one of the highest paid models in the world. There is little doubt that part of Brady’s crossover appeal is the understanding that he is the rare N.F.L. superstar whose spouse may be more famous than he is.Brady is chasing his sixth Super Bowl championship and seems to have secured his spot on the Boston sports version of Mount Rushmore. There is still room there for Williams, Bill Russell and (genuflect) Bobby Orr. Fans of Bird will make their case.But the only person who could possibly unseat Brady is Bill Belichick, who admittedly already has a face of stone. He first landed in New England as a teenager during a postgraduate year at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., then attended Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn.Realistically, no one is likely to eclipse Brady. Two years ago, a Boston cultural museum unveiled a Brady wax figure (next to dozens of nonsports icons of the area). The representation of Brady was deemed creepy, and elicited more ire and wrath than the unworthy courtroom sketch did.Which means only one thing: In five or 10 years, when civic leaders erect a Tom Brady statue, they better get the visage right. And drape him in his No. 12 jersey.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonLawyers for Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, and 14 other men charged with soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla., have filed a motion in Palm Beach County, Fla., to keep private all evidence in the case, which includes hidden camera video of the men inside a massage parlor over several days in late January.In the filing, the lawyers said the evidence had not been produced in discovery, and therefore should remain confidential. The lawyers added that their clients “dispute the position of the prosecutors that there may be a ‘victim’ of any offense at issue in these cases,” a suggestion that they do not believe sex trafficking was taking place at the massage parlor, as prosecutors have alleged.In asking the court to seal the evidence, the lawyers may be trying to prevent the evidence from leaking and becoming public, which could be embarrassing.Mr. Kraft, by far the most well-known defendant in the group, pleaded not guilty to two first-degree misdemeanor solicitation charges at the end of February. The prosecutors said Mr. Kraft, who is accused as a first-time offender, was unlikely to face jail time in this case.On Tuesday, the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County offered Mr. Kraft and the 24 other men who were similarly accused of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor called the Orchids of Asia day spa a chance to have the charges dropped if they agreed to do 100 hours of community service, take a class on the dangers of prostitution, get tested for sexually transmitted diseases and pay a fine.The men would also have to agree that if the case had gone to trial, the prosecutors would have won. This would effectively force them to admit guilt even though they have pleaded not guilty to the charges.It is unclear how many of the defendants have agreed to the terms to settle their cases.The motion regarding the evidence in the case may be a way for Mr. Kraft and the other defendants to signal that they are unwilling to accept the current deal offered by the prosecutors to have the charges dropped.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunThe Jets have come to the realization that if they could not beat Adam Gase, they might as well hire him.After a busy, 10-day coaching search that saw the team chairman Christopher Johnson and General Manager Mike Maccagnan interview eight candidates, the Jets decided on Wednesday to name Gase their next head coach, according to a person familiar with the deal who is not authorized to comment publicly about it.The hire was first reported by ESPN and NFL Network, and a formal announcement is expected to come on Thursday.Gase went 23-25 in three seasons with the Miami Dolphins in the A.F.C. East, reaching the postseason in just one of those years. But he was 5-1 against the Jets, including two wins in 2018.It is a pivotal hire for the franchise, which fired Todd Bowles on Dec. 30 after four playoff-less seasons that extended a postseason drought that started in 2011. But in quarterback Sam Darnold, who will be entering his sophomore season, the team believes it has a franchise cornerstone brimming with potential.Gase, 40, checked a lot of boxes for Johnson and Maccagnan, who led the search. He is a young but experienced coach with a reputation as an innovative playcaller. Most important for his new team, he is a quarterback guru, who received rave reviews for his work with players including Peyton Manning, Jay Cutler, and Tim Tebow — work that the Jets hope will continue with Darnold.Gase was considered a rising star in 2016, when he was hired by Miami as the youngest coach in the N.F.L. He had spent two seasons as the offensive coordinator for the Denver Broncos, who set N.F.L. scoring records and reached the Super Bowl with his creative, pass-heavy offense. As the Chicago Bears’ offensive coordinator in 2015, he helped Cutler reduce his interceptions and record a career-best passer rating.His breakthrough into head coaching, however, came with mixed results. Gase, who also called the plays for Miami, went 10-6 his first season and reached the playoffs — losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in a wild-card game — but the team failed to finish over .500 the next two years. Gase’s young quarterback, Ryan Tannehill, missed the entire 2017 season and five games in 2018. And with an injury-depleted roster this season, Gase received some credit for managing to keep the team in contention until the final month of the season.A protégé of Nick Saban, Gase did not play college football but started assisting on Saban’s staff as a student at Michigan State. When Saban later left for Louisiana State, Gase was the only staff member who left with him. And during the week leading up to the Super Bowl in 2014, Manning called Gase “the smartest guy I know.”Gase’s hiring caps a coaching search that carried a palpable sense of urgency. On Dec. 31, a day after the conclusion of the regular season, Johnson and Maccagnan outlined what they were looking for in the next coach, knowing that seven other teams were in the same boat. And the Jets quickly got to interviewing; the candidates included the former head coaches Jim Caldwell and Mike McCarthy; the coordinators Eric Bieniemy, Todd Monken, and Kris Richard; and the Baylor University coach Matt Rhule.Gase’s résumé stands out among those of past Jets coaches. He is the franchise’s first coach to be hired with any prior head coaching experience since Bill Parcells in 1997 and the first with an offensive background since Rich Kotite in 1995.While Johnson and Maccagnan did not rule out hiring another defense-minded coach, their remarks made clear that they were focused on finding someone who could mentor Darnold, the No. 3 overall pick in last year’s draft. And with the No. 3 pick yet again this year, and over $100 million in salary cap space this off-season, the burden is on Maccagnan, in the final year of his contract, to put together a roster that can finally compete for a division title.On Dec. 31, Johnson said he believed the Jets’ opening was an attractive one, and not only because of Darnold.“If you win here, you’re a freaking legend,” Johnson said. “That counts for something.”Gase will get the chance to find out.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia Mazzei and Ken BelsonPALM BEACH, Fla. — In this exclusive, image-conscious retreat where enormous hedges encircle grand mansions and valets park cars at the supermarket, wealthy residents pay vast sums to shield their private lives from view, even as they crave to be seen at the charitable events and black-tie galas that go on almost daily from November to May, a glittering time known as “the season.”The messier reality is that the history of this 18-mile barrier island, a playground for the rich for more than a century, is littered with stories of American aristocrats who failed to stay out of the local tabloids. Wall Street barons ran off with maids, star-studded couples scandalously divorced and, not surprisingly, high-priced escorts worked the upscale bars and hotels.The latest scandalous episode spilled into public view last week when Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots and a fixture in this haven of billionaires and millionaires, was charged with two first-degree misdemeanor counts of soliciting a prostitute at a massage parlor in the town of Jupiter, a 30-minute drive away. There, the police said they twice caught Mr. Kraft, 77, on video paying for sex with a woman.Mr. Kraft has denied the charges. But even the suggestion that a prominent sportsman, businessman and philanthropist might have sought company in a seedy massage parlor up the road has many residents wondering why a man worth an estimated $6.6 billion would risk his reputation so recklessly on a $79-an-hour massage.“You just would never hear of anything as sleazy as that in Palm Beach,” said Ronald Kessler, who 20 years ago wrote a book about the debauchery of the island’s wealthiest scions, most of it kept discreetly within the confines of Billionaires Row.Back then, news of call girls being arrested in Palm Beach was not unheard-of, he said. In the age of TMZ, cellphone cameras and the internet, it seems, residents have generally become more careful. And yet some still throw caution to the wind.“You can’t say, ‘What happens in Florida stays in Florida,’ because it never does,” said Carl Hiaasen, who writes extensively about the foibles of Floridians, but said he was surprised to see the news of Mr. Kraft’s arrest warrant. “The family is very philanthropic, and this time of year is the season,” he said. “You don’t expect to see them over on the mainland in a shopping center.”Most celebrities tend to be as discreet as they can, said Jim Ausem, a retired Las Vegas police officer who for 10 years worked security for the actor Burt Reynolds, a Jupiter-area regular until his death last year.“When they go into a public place, they’ll come in through the back door. They won’t park out front,” Mr. Ausem said. “There’ll be a private room set up, and nobody will know who’s there. That’s the way it is.”For the most part, the wealthy Northeast barons who own waterfront mansions and luxury condos in this storied part of Florida come to avoid the cold weather and high taxes back home. Though he lives in Boston and travels widely, Mr. Kraft, in his signature Nike sneakers and shock of gray hair, has become a regular, popping into charity events to write big checks and dining at Mar-a-Lago, the exclusive club owned by his friend President Trump.[Read: ‘The Monsters Are the Men’: Inside a Thriving Sex Trafficking Trade in Florida]Two weeks ago, Mr. Kraft was spotted at a sound check for another of his friends, the rock star Jon Bon Jovi, who was performing in a multimillion-dollar fund-raiser for the Everglades Foundation at the Breakers, a Gilded Age Palm Beach resort where Mr. Kraft stays in a condo when he is in town.The resort’s guests have included a who’s who of American royalty: The hotel dates back to when Henry Morrison Flagler, John D. Rockefeller’s partner in Standard Oil, was building railroads and resorts on Florida’s east coast. Over the years, J. P. Morgan, Andrew Carnegie and various Astors and Vanderbilts have stayed there.The resort is also a favorite of National Football League team owners, who have held their annual meeting there in March, off and on, for years. About a quarter of the owners in the league have homes in and near Palm Beach.That includes nearby Jupiter Island, a bastion of old money where secluded oceanfront mansions have separate service entrances: The Bush family vacationed there for decades. The nearby towns are also home to some of the world’s best golfers, including Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy and Rickie Fowler, as well as the golfing legends Jack Nicklaus and Greg Norman. Some of them have occasionally been spotted in a movie theater across the street from Orchids of Asia, the massage spa where the police say they videotaped Mr. Kraft.One of the attractions for millionaires to sunny Florida has nothing to do with the beaches: There is no state income tax, and the state’s homestead exemption caps property tax increases. That has proved to be a big lure in recent years for those who have made fortunes in finance. With money to burn, they have bought properties and built mansions on streets nicknamed Bankers Row.“They come here for the sun, fun and lower taxes,” said Joel Cohen, who owned an art and photo gallery in Palm Beach for years. “It’s one big rich people’s family.”Yet that has had the effect of pushing down the declining population, which is now about 8,750 residents. The ultra-wealthy, said Laurel Baker, the chief executive of the Palm Beach Chamber of Commerce, often knock down apartments and multifamily buildings and replace them with single-family homes, often very large ones. This has driven up property prices further, making Palm Beach even more exclusive.“One of the downsides is a starter home is three, four or five million dollars, which does not necessarily draw the boy scouts and girl scouts of America,” she said.Mr. Kraft pleaded not guilty on Thursday and requested a non-jury trial, according to a court filing by his defense lawyer, Jack A. Goldberger.He was not the only wealthy businessman charged in the massage parlor case. John Havens, former president and chief operating officer of Citigroup, and John Childs, founder of the private equity firm J. W. Childs Associates, were also among those named by the police, but so were lots of others, who ranged in age from 30 to 81. (Mr. Childs has denied the charges, and Mr. Havens has not commented on them.)“They come from all walks of life: There’s rich and poor, there’s young and old,” said Dave Aronberg, the state attorney in Palm Beach County who pressed charges on Monday. Mr. Kraft, he added, would not receive any advantages. “I can assure you that our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent.”Much is still not known about the women at the Orchids of Asia massage parlor, which police say was part of a human trafficking ring. There is no suggestion that Mr. Kraft or the other 24 people arrested knew that the women were working there against their will, as police contend.As for why wealthy businessmen with presumably plenty of options might frequent a cheap strip mall massage joint, that’s a question many locals have not been able to answer.“That is what just absolutely shocks me about this whole thing,” Mr. Ausem said. “For Robert Kraft to go in a place like this, for 69 or 79 bucks and give her a $100 tip — it just blows me away. ‘I can put a hat on, I won’t be recognized.’ I mean, it’s just so stupid.”For some veteran Palm Beach observers, the accusation of Mr. Kraft’s involvement in the tawdry business of paid sex is another example of how wealth can breed a sense of entitlement that blinds.“When you have that much money, you believe you are untouchable,” said Maris Kirschbaum, the president of Bbp Investigations, a private investigator in neighboring Broward County. “The billionaires are arrogant. They think they are bulletproof.”Alain Delaquérière contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperATLANTA — After the N.F.L.’s best season in years, Roger Goodell, the league’s commissioner, got his chance to crow on Wednesday afternoon ahead of its showcase event.“This season has demonstrated that there has never been a better time to be a part of the N.F.L.,” Goodell said. “Our game is getting better and better, and our engagement and popularity is unmatched in today’s media landscape.”Under Goodell, the N.F.L. has tried to be everywhere all the time. The combine, the draft and the minicamps have become manufactured events unto themselves; there are now games on Thursday nights and some, played in London, early on Sunday mornings; and most games have remained on network television even as other sports have largely moved their games to cable and now streaming.A year ago, the strategy was under stress. Then the emergence of a new crop of young stars and a largely controversy-free season combined to drive up television ratings and produce a spectacular weekend of conference championships, capping a winning streak that began with a surprisingly fervent auction for rights to the league’s least popular slate of games.Coming off the 2017 season, after television ratings had dropped 17 percent over the previous two years, the league entered the media market trying to sell the rights to “Thursday Night Football.” CBS and NBC had both said they lost money showing Thursday games, and they weren’t willing to pay much more than the $450 million combined they were paying each year.Then, as in 1993, when an audacious bid for N.F.L. rights ignited a scramble that sent their value soaring, Rupert Murdoch came to the rescue. Fox agreed to pay $660 million annually to show “Thursday Night Football.”Murdoch’s market-resetting bid came shortly after he agreed to sell the vast majority of his empire to Disney, leaving him with a significant need for marquee programming on his network. Also, there was real competition from a tech company.Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer, said in an interview in September that Fox did not submit the highest bid. A tech company did, he said, though he would not reveal which one.“We turned down higher bids,” he said. “When you put a game exclusively on digital, are you growing the distribution and availability, or are you limiting it, and to the extent how much? And for us, we weren’t sure we wanted to do that yet.”In other words, the N.F.L. stuck to its foundational game plan to be everywhere and accessible. After two seasons of turmoil, the league opted not to break away from its longstanding strategy, but instead doubled down on it.Plenty of dangers still lurk. Football’s concussion crisis threatens the viability of youth football. Colin Kaepernick’s collusion case against the league drags on, suggesting he has a chance to win, and attendance was down to its lowest level in eight seasons. Instead of Patriots quarterback Tom Brady or Rams Coach Sean McVay, the biggest topic ahead of the Super Bowl remains atrocious officiating. The league’s collective bargaining agreement with its players expires in two years, and negotiations will be tough.But Rolapp’s big bet paid off. Every time slot for N.F.L. games, including Thursday night’s, earned higher television ratings this season, a total gain of 5 percent.Incidents of violence against women continued to plague the league. The Kansas City Chiefs cut the Pro Bowl running back Kareem Hunt during the season after video showed him shoving and kicking a woman. The New York Times later reported that the N.F.L. failed to question Hunt about the incident during an interview earlier in the year.The San Francisco 49ers cut Reuben Foster after his second arrest on domestic violence charges in 2018, and three days later he was claimed by Washington, a move that garnered substantial criticism. TMZ also published video of Washington safety Montae Nicholson punching out a man.But Goodell and the N.F.L. limited their unforced errors. There was nothing like the drawn-out legal battle over deflated footballs in 2015 and 2016. And once the N.F.L. realized the opposition it would face if it pushed ahead with a rule mandating players on the field to stand during the national anthem, the league backed off.Young players like Patrick Mahomes, Baker Mayfield, Mitchell Trubisky and Saquon Barkley became stars in 2018, pointing the way to a post-Brady world. High-profile quarterbacks like Russell Wilson and Andrew Luck returned to form. High-octane passing offenses took over the league.It all came together in the conference championship games, which featured the four highest seeds and the four highest-scoring teams. Two veteran quarterbacks, Drew Brees and Brady, took on the best young quarterbacks, Jared Goff and Mahomes, in high-scoring shootouts that went to overtime.David Berson, the president of CBS Sports, which will televise the Super Bowl on Sunday, said fewer off-the-field stories were getting attention “because the on-field product is so compelling.” Whether Berson is correct or whether the league simply had a year with fewer controversies ultimately does not matter all that much to the league’s media partners because, as Berson put it, “The focus is on the football, and the football is really exciting.”There were blown calls and rules controversies, of course. The N.F.C. championship game hinged on an egregious no-call, and Brady and the Patriots also benefited from a questionable ruling and a rule that did not allow Mahomes — probably the league’s most valuable player — to get his hands on the football in overtime. But the arguments garnered more attention for the game, which was just what the league wanted.The question now is whether this fundamentally violent sport can be made safer. Before the season, the N.F.L. introduced a rule barring players from using their helmets as weapons when tackling. Six weeks into the season, its enforcement was essentially abandoned, underscoring how difficult it is to legislate between acceptable and unacceptable levels of violence.According to league statistics, concussions were down 29 percent in 2018, to 0.5 per game from 0.7. Jeff Miller, the N.F.L.’s executive vice president for health and safety, cautioned on a recent conference call that “there is no finishing line” when it comes to player safety, but touted the work being done to get players to wear better helmets and to present teams with targeted interventions to prevent concussions.The league’s own concussion data show that the number of concussions each year fluctuates, and that previous reductions were reversed in following seasons. The N.F.L. has also not been able to reduce the instances of A.C.L. and M.C.L. tears, ligament injuries that commonly end players’ seasons.The youth tackle football participation rate has been dropping for a decade, and now the high school tackle football participation rate is declining, too. Just one insurance company is willing to cover professional football leagues for head trauma, according to ESPN, and youth football leagues and school districts are facing insurance premiums that they are struggling to afford.In the off-season, the N.F.L. is likely to receive a ruling in the Kaepernick collusion case. His grievance, which was filed 15 months ago, still hasn’t been heard. It remains difficult for collusion to be proven, but if Kaepernick wins, he could be awarded tens of millions of dollars, and evidence uncovered in discovery and depositions could become public.Attendance in 2018 fell to its lowest level since 2011. This drop will be rectified in part in 2020 when the Los Angeles Chargers move from a 27,000-capacity soccer stadium to a 70,000-capacity football stadium, but Washington, Tampa Bay and Cincinnati all suffered big drops.The N.F.L. operates on two planes: the day-to-day of small crises and opportunities, and the issues that could take a bite out of the $15 billion-a-year league. Most things fall into the first bucket, with no chance of harming a league whose revenue inches upward each season because of television contracts signed earlier in this decade.Over the next decade, the N.F.L.’s ability to handle the changing media and technology environment and the mounting health and safety challenges is likely to determine whether it reaches its goal of $25 billion a year in revenue by 2027 and remains at the pinnacle of American sports.Arthur Blank, the owner of the Atlanta Falcons, is confident the league will continue to prosper. He believes the N.F.L. will receive even more money when contracts to telecast Sunday and Monday games expire after the 2021 and 2022 seasons because of “the number of ways the product is distributed these days,” he said.But the root of Blank’s confidence is the league’s longstanding strategy. “The core of it is still going to be over-the-air free television,” he said. “That’s not going to change.”Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Ken Belson contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinCAMBRIDGE, Mass. — One of the most infamous dropped passes in football history clanged off Dallas Cowboys tight end Jackie Smith as he lay in the end zone during Super Bowl XIII.Poor Smith. Forty years ago, he had only his bare hands to try to pull in Roger Staubach’s low pass. Had he played in a more recent edition of the N.F.L. playoffs, he almost certainly would have been wearing a pair of the sticky, silicone gloves that have transformed receivers’ mitts into virtual Spider-Man hands.The technological advances on the skin of those gloves have been so profound that they now enable receivers to snare passes their forebears never dreamed of catching, and in making the seemingly impossible possible, they may be changing the way football is played.The grippy polymer used on the new generation of gloves, said to be developed first by a Canadian wide receiver and a chemist in a Pakistan laboratory in 1999, is about 20 percent stickier than a human hand — according to a recent study by the M.I.T. Sports Lab performed at the request of The New York Times.The technology has made life easier for receivers at all levels, of course, and now it is rare for any player in search of a better grip — pass catchers, but also quarterbacks, running backs and tight ends — not to make them part of his standard equipment. Even defenders have taken to wearing them.“The gloves definitely help with the one-handed catches,” said Rasul Douglas, a cornerback for the Philadelphia Eagles who wears a Nike version. “You rarely see guys making one-handed catches without gloves on.”For those who have not played any football in the last 15 years, just touch a pair at a sporting goods store. It will be obvious why the gloves, now manufactured by several companies, are probably the most significant performance-related football equipment innovation since the advent of the cleat.“There’s no long-term statistical data that I’ve seen,” said Rich McKay, the chief executive of the Atlanta Falcons and the chairman of the N.F.L.’s competition committee. “But they definitely make some difference, there’s no doubt about that.”When a catch is made, the naked eye often sees only hands grabbing a ball. But what is happening on the palms of a receiver’s gloves is far more complex: the scientific principle of polymer adhesion and the miracle of a molecular chain of silicon and oxygen that creates polysiloxanes — viscoelastic substances commonly known as silicone rubber. Silicone is used to make a wide range of products, including caulk, kitchen tools and Silly Putty. Receivers use it to make highlight-reel plays.According to Sanat Kumar, a professor of chemical engineering at Columbia University and a specialist in polymers, the sticky property exhibited in a viscoelastic medium arises because the material acts as both a solid and a liquid.“It is macroscopically a solid,” Kumar explained of the silicone. “But at shorter, microscopic lengths, it is liquidlike.”That liquidlike property makes it sticky. Imagine a tight spiral thrown onto a hard surface like a road. It skips right off. Now imagine the same ball chucked into a large puddle of honey. The honey makes the grab. That is because the silicone surface of the gloves is, at the microscopic level, a viscous, honeylike liquid, and when a football comes in contact with it, the ball stalls in it the way it would on the surface of a gooey liquid, like the honey. The ball must work to get through it.Anette Hosoi, a co-director of the M.I.T. Sports Lab and an associate dean of engineering at M.I.T., is an expert on the interface of soft materials. She and her students conducted experiments on a pair of blue Under Armour UA F6 gloves last week to quantify their tackiness, basically measuring the force required to pull a leather Wilson football over both the gloves and over a bare hand, in both dry and wet conditions.The experiments were led by Sarah Fay, an M.I.T. doctoral candidate, who determined the gloves had a coefficient of friction of 1.64 when dry, which is roughly 20 percent more grip force than that of a bare hand (1.37 CoF).(Fay also noted that statistically and perhaps surprisingly, there is no significant difference between the friction of a wet glove and a wet hand.)Looking over a pair of Under Armour gloves in her office near the Charles River, Hosoi said the key to their performance was how soft and deformable the silicone is, meaning it covers and adheres to the tiniest variations on the surface of the ball, enabling it to almost melt into them.“Every time you get more deformable, you get a better adhesion,” Hosoi said after slipping on a pair and palming a leather football with her left hand.But as any coach or Eagles fan knows, adhesion alone does not guarantee catches. As Douglas, the Eagles cornerback, said before last week’s loss to the New Orleans Saints, “There’s people with gloves on who are still dropping passes every game.”The birth of the current generation of supergloves can be traced to a wintry day at the University of Ottawa in 1995. A receiver named Jeff Beraznik, who would later found Cutters Sports Gloves, noticed a star player from rival Calgary, Donnavan Blair, fielding practice punts with one hand while wearing a pair of orange gloves.The next year, Beraznik called Calgary’s equipment manager and learned that Blair was wearing glass cutters’ gloves — rubbery mitts designed to protect workers and do-it-yourselfers from cuts from glass edges. Those gloves, he found, could be purchased at any hardware store.Beraznik bought a pair and modified them to fit more snugly. They were not perfect, he said, but they were good enough, and once Beraznik’s teammates stopped making fun of him, they all wanted a pair of their own.“The whole team was, like, pass me a pair of those glass cutter gloves,” Beraznik said. Hence the name of his company, Cutters.Beraznik spent 18 months after college traveling the world seeking the perfect material, one that was stickier but also less bulky. He teamed with a safety glove company in Toronto called Midas, which sent him to a lab outside Karachi, Pakistan, to work with one of its chemists.With a football in hand, Beraznik made repeated trips to Karachi in the late 1990s, at times rolling up his sleeves to work on the formula — adding a little more of this and a little less of that. One day, he and one of the chemists arrived at the current formula, which was dubbed C-Tack.The modern glove, a huge improvement on the scuba diving gloves worn by N.F.L. receivers at the time, was born. Other manufacturers, including a company founded by Jim Sandusky (another Canadian football player), were working on similar products. Eventually Nike, Reebok, Under Armour and others produced their own.Even Lester Hayes, the former Oakland Raiders cornerback who was known for smearing his hands and body with a ridiculously sticky goop in the 1970s, was impressed. After he came across a pair of Cutters, he sent a handwritten letter to Beraznik.“This is the greatest invention since stickem,” he wrote.That product, known by its brand name, Stickum, was outlawed by the N.F.L. in 1981 because of the utter mess it made — sticking not only to users, but also to opponents, referees and the balls themselves. The silicone gloves are allowed because they leave no residue on the ball. According to Rule 5, Section 4, Article 4, Item 8 of the N.F.L. rule book, “players may wear gloves with a tackified surface if such tacky substance does not adhere to the football or otherwise cause handling problems for players.”The most obvious result of the gloves can be seen in the startling one-handed catches that came into fashion after Odell Beckham Jr. of the Giants made the most famous of all one-handed grabs against the Dallas Cowboys in 2014. Now almost everyone — in the N.F.L., college and even high school — has done it.In the Rose Bowl this month, Hunter Bryant, a sophomore tight end at the University of Washington, leapt for a high pass in the final two minutes of that game and palmed the ball with his gloved right hand. By using only one hand, he was able to extend his reach and fend off his opponent.In a telephone interview, Bryant said that like most players today, he has worn silicone gloves since he played youth football. But once he saw Beckham’s gloved acrobatic snares on Sundays, he began practicing them.“Everyone practices them now,” he said. “I’ve gotten pretty good at it.”Hunter also noted that he feels he can sometimes get a better grip with bare hands, but he wears those sticky gloves anyway. He doesn’t want to find himself lying in the end zone without the ball one day, wringing his bare hands the way Jackie Smith once did.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump’s national address lasted just nine minutes. Watch it here.Mr. Trump argued that there is a crisis on the southern border that must be addressed before the government shutdown — now the second longest — can end. He was at times misleading. Here’s what he said and how it stacks up against the facts.Here is the response from the Democratic Party leaders, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer._____2. It’s payday for federal workers. There’s only one problem: There’s no paycheck.The bank account of a single mother who works for the Census Bureau has dipped to negative $169. A federal corrections officer took a side job driving for Uber to make his mortgage payment. And a wildland firefighter sold his truck to pay next month’s bills.We talked to federal workers across the country who are furloughed because of the government shutdown and are wondering how long they can survive without pay._____3. Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign manager, discussed internal polling data from the 2016 race with a man tied to Russian intelligence, prosecutors alleged.The accusations came to light in a document filed by Mr. Manafort’s lawyers that was supposed to be partly blacked out — but contained a formatting error. Above, Mr. Manafort after a court appearance last year.Prosecutors for the special counsel Robert Mueller broke off a plea agreement with Mr. Manafort in November, accusing him of repeatedly lying to them. The details of their accusations have been largely kept secret until now.Separately, Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in Trump Tower during the 2016 campaign, was charged in a separate case showing her Kremlin ties. Prosecutors said she helped draft Russia’s “intentionally misleading” response in a fraud case._____4. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey refused to meet with John Bolton, the White House national security adviser, after he said Turkey must agree to protect Syria’s Kurds.The snub came a day after Mr. Erdogan commended President Trump’s decision to pull out of Syria. It makes an agreement between the two allies that much more difficult ahead of an announced U.S. withdrawal from Syria. Above, Mr. Bolton, left, with a Turkish government spokesman.For his part, Mr. Bolton has been walking a tricky line on the withdrawal plans. He walked back Mr. Trump’s promises for a speedy removal of 2,000 troops — but he was also at least partly responsible for the conditions that led to that sudden move in the first place._____5. U.S. carbon dioxide output rose by 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years, according to a preliminary estimate by a private research group.The uptick came even as a near-record number of coal plants across the country closed last year. Some of that increase was weather related, but another big reason for the change was the growing economy: Emissions from factories, planes and trucks soared.The report illustrates how difficult it could be for the country to make further progress on climate change, particularly as the Trump administration pushes to roll back federal regulations that limit greenhouse gas emissions._____6. Sears will remain open — at least for now.The retailer reached an 11th-hour deal pushing off the threat of liquidation. The company’s chairman now has an opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion offer to buy Sears and keep its 400 stores open.Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager, is now expected to bid for the company at a court-supervised auction next week. Already the company’s largest stockholder, he’s the only bidder seeking to maintain Sears as a “going concern.”The company’s largest creditors will ultimately decide whether they would recover more money by allowing Mr. Lampert to keep the company or sell it off piecemeal._____7. New York City plans to spend at least $100 million to ensure that undocumented immigrants and low-income residents can receive medical treatment.Mayor Bill de Blasio, above, said that the new plan would improve coverage for 516,000 people and aim to reach more of those who are eligible for health insurance but haven’t applied for it.The announcement was Mr. de Blasio’s latest jump into the national debates over immigration and health care, and builds on earlier efforts to position himself as a bulwark against the policies of President Trump._____8. Clemson defeated Alabama for the college football championship Monday night using some big plays.But the team’s performance had its roots in a gutsy decision Coach Dabo Swinney made back in September.Mr. Swinney substituted a freshman quarterback for a proven starter at a key moment. That decision made everything, our columnist writes._____9. “We canned a feeling.”Ease, comfort and pleasure are what millennials really want — and capitalism is into it.A new beverage called Recess is a case study in where those desires meet. Bubbles? Yes. CBD? Check. Sans-serif block font? Yeah! A knowing, nudging, creepily on-point Instagram presence? Obviously.Our writer, herself no stranger to millennial nu-irony, explains why the sparkling water infused with hemp extract is flying off the shelves at $29.99 for a six-pack._____10. Finally, here’s a look at a high-stakes science project.Scientists wanted to better understand the explosive reaction between water and lava, but doing experiments in active volcanoes is no picnic. So a group of researchers decided to brew up their own backyard lava.“We are not just crazy people mixing and seeing what happens,” a volcanologist said. “We are scientists and we want to quantify, and we do have an idea of what we are doing here.”Have a spectacular evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnRandolph Ross makes the unrecognizable recognizable.By Deb AmlenTHURSDAY PUZZLE — It’s Thursday, so it’s highly likely that you have spent some time staring at the grid, challenging your brain to untangle the tricky clues and unfurl the clever theme before you. This, of course, is a complicated and highly intellectual process that, if it could be boiled down to a single sound, would consist mainly of “What?” It took a while for me to understand Randolph Ross’s theme, but that’s par for the course on most Thursdays. When I finally got it, it was the kind of “Aha!” moment that reached around and slapped me in the back of the head. The slap is one of the best feelings in the world, at least to crossword puzzle solvers. I thought it was very clever, and Mr. Ross explains some further surprising constraints he set for himself in his notes below.It was all because of those sounds in the clues. And none of them were “What?”15A: “It holds water” is a phrase sometimes used to describe an idea that has some positive things going for it, but in this puzzle, we’re looking for something that really does hold water. The answer is STREAM BED, which was an ever-so-slightly awkward entry, in my opinion. I had STREAM_ _ D for the longest time, and the BE that completed the phrase were two of the last letters I filled in.19A: TIL that you need to rack up 501 points to win a game of DARTS. I don’t know how long that takes the average player, but I’m almost certain that the game was designed to keep people in the pub and buying more pints.30A: I’m not one for banning words or phrases from puzzles, but the phrase AH SO stuck in my craw. It was used in the old Charlie Chan movies (where Chan was played by an white actor and his way of speaking was racist to say the least), and I can remember when it was also used outside of movies to demean Asian-Americans. Yes, it’s not clued that way (“‘I can see clearly now’”), but how many people in 2019 really say “AH SO” when they understand something? I’d be much more likely to say “Ah, O.K.” or “Oh, O.K.”38A: I’m ashamed to say that I didn’t really learn how to take care of my car until midlife, but when you are trying to play catch up in that way, you tend to remember these things. The air in tires is measured in pounds per square inch, which is abbreviated as P.S.I.57A: Read that as U.N. VOTE, not UNVOTE. 6D: If you are from New York City, hand up if you confidently scribbled or typed M.T.A. in this slot because we have an L line in our subway system and we also have a tendency to believe that New York is the center of the universe. But look at the clue a little closer: The L is in quotes. This should be read as “el,” which was abbreviated from the word “elevated” until (warning: joke ahead) even that got to be too much, so Chicagoans abbreviated it further to simply “L.” The answer is C.T.A., short for the Chicago Transit Authority.11D: This clue — “Thunder, but not Lightning” — could have been much trickier if the word Lightning hadn’t been capitalized, but the editors aren’t that cruel, at least not on a Thursday. This is a “veiled capital” clue, which is covered in our solving guide in the “Cracking the Harder Clues” section. This type of clue hides a proper noun, which would have a capitalized first letter, at the beginning of the clue sentence, which would also be capitalized. So the Thunder is not an atmospheric rumble, it’s an N.B.A. TEAM, whereas the Lightning is not.56D: Tegan and SARA are identical twins and an indie pop duo from Calgary, Alberta.Mr. Ross has put together an interesting set of word pairs that also happen to be real things, like “Blue jay.” The theme clues have two parts: The first part is an adjective and the second part is a noun. Yes, I know a lot of phrases are made up of adjectives and nouns, but bear with me. We’re not told what we’re supposed to do with these adjectives and nouns, and you may be stuck wondering about that for a while, but this is where that slap in the head comes in.It turns out that those nouns are homophones for letters of the alphabet. So “jays” stands for “J’s,” and the color “Blue” indicates two things that begin with the letter J that are blue. For example, the answer to “Blue jays,” is JASMINE AND JEANS, which, on the surface, sounds like a somewhat offbeat perfume. But if you put “blue” before each of those J words, you get BLUE JASMINE and BLUEJEANS.Similarly, at 26A, the entry for “Honey bees” is BADGERS AND BEARS, because the animal kingdom has both HONEY BADGERS and HONEY BEARS. There are three more theme entries, but I’ll let you find them.The theme entries started with JASMINE AND JEANS. I noted this would make a 15-letter entry with a cute clue (“Blue jays”) that could be paralleled with “Dry eyes,” “Honey bees,” “High seas,” and “Green peas.” Coming up with four 15-letter entries and a 9-letter entry for the middle was a lot for a daily puzzle, but I didn’t want to give any of them up and I thought the challenge to craft a 72 word grid that could hold them all would be something I wanted to try. To make it even harder for myself, I kept the parts of each pairing in alphabetical order.Designing the theme entries this way probably caused me to have a few more abbreviations than I would have liked, which may displease some solvers. I think the trade-off for an abundance of long theme entries was worth it in this puzzle. I know sometimes it’s not, and a constructor should knock out the weakest theme entry for the sake of the rest of the grid; but I managed to get a real tight theme and the personal constructing pleasure of crafting an interlock that held so many long answers.RESAND was also an entry I didn’t particularly like — it’s not a word most, if any, solvers would use or hear. I spent a long time trying to get rid of it. However, when I thought of the clue “Smooth over” I thought that would compensate for the not so great “re” word. RSVPED and NBA TEAM, with their consecutive consonants both got me out of trouble in the grid. I also came up with the original UN VOTE to help me complete the fill.This was a fun crossword constructing exercise for me. I hope it’s also an “aha moment” for solvers when the theme answers are discovered.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA nasal spray version of the drug ketamine has shown promise as an antidepressant, even if its properties still aren’t well understood.By Benedict CareyOf the 16 million American adults who live with depression, as many as one-quarter gain little or no benefit from available treatments, whether drugs or talk therapy. They represent perhaps the greatest unmet need in psychiatry. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved a prescription treatment intended to help them, a fast-acting drug derived from an old and widely used anesthetic, ketamine. The move heralds a shift from the Prozac era of antidepressant drugs. The newly approved treatment, called esketamine, is a nasal spray developed by Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., a branch of Johnson & Johnson, that will be marketed under the name Spravato. It contains an active portion of the ketamine molecule, whose antidepressant properties are not well understood yet. “Thank goodness we now have something with a different mechanism of action than previous antidepressants,” said Dr. Erick Turner, a former F.D.A. reviewer and an associate professor of psychiatry at Oregon Health & Science University. “But I’m skeptical of the hype, because in this world it’s like Lucy holding the football for Charlie Brown: Each time we get our hopes up, the football gets pulled away.”The generic anesthetic is already increasingly available for depression, at hundreds of clinics around the country that provide a course of intravenous treatments, and studies suggest it can help treatment-resistant people. It often causes out-of-body and hallucinogenic sensations when administered; in the 1980s and 1990s it was popular as a club drug, Special K. The cost for these treatments typically is out of pocket, as the generic anesthetic is not approved by the F.D.A. for depression. In contrast, esketamine likely would be covered under many insurance plans, and its side effects, though similar to those of generic ketamine, are thought to be less dramatic. The recommended course of the newly approved drug is twice a week, for four weeks, with boosters as needed, along with  one of the commonly used oral antidepressants. F.D.A. approval requires that doses be taken in a doctor’s office or clinic, with patients monitored for at least two hours, and their experience entered in a registry; patients should not drive on the day of treatment. Esketamine, like ketamine, has the potential for abuse, and both drugs can induce psychotic episodes in people who are at high risk for them. The safety monitoring will require doctors to find space for treated patients, which could present a logistical challenge, some psychiatrists said. The cost for a one-month course of treatment will be between $4,720 and $6,785, said Janssen, and experts said it will give the company a foothold in the $12 billion global antidepressant market, where most drugs now are generic. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The approval of esketamine marks a new approach to treating serious mood problems, experts said. Prozac and similar drugs enhance the activity of brain messengers such as serotonin; they are mildly effective, but they take weeks or months for their effects to be felt, and for many patients they provide little or no relief from depression. In contrast, the ketamine-based compounds — several others are being developed — work within hours or days, and are effective in some people who are considered “treatment resistant,” meaning they have not benefited from other antidepressants.“These are exciting times, for sure,” said Dr. Todd Gould, an associate professor of psychiatry in the University of Maryland School of Medicine. “We have drugs that work rapidly to treat a very severe illness.” Dr. Gould was not involved in the Janssen study but has identified a metabolite, or ketamine breakdown product, that could be developed into another drug. Experts with long experience in treating depression were encouraged by the news, but also chary. The effectiveness of the previous class of antidepressants such as Prozac and Paxil was vastly exaggerated when they came on the market. And the results of esketamine trials, which were paid for and carried out by Janssen, were mixed.In each trial submitted, all patients were started on a new antidepressant drug, and given a course of esketamine treatment or a placebo. In one monthlong study, those on esketamine performed better statistically than those on placebo, reducing scores on a standard, 60-point depression scale by 21 points, compared to 17 points for placebo. But in two others trials, the drug did not statistically outperform placebo treatment. Historically, the F.D.A. has required that a drug succeed in two short-term trials before it is approved; the agency loosened its criteria for esketamine, opting instead to study relapse in people who did well on the drug.In that trial, Janssen reported that only about one-quarter of subjects relapsed, compared to 45 percent of subjects who received the placebo spray. All the subjects had been given a diagnosis of treatment-resistant depression, or T.R.D., having previously failed multiple courses of drug treatment. “We’ve had nothing new in 30 years,” said Steven Hollon, a professor of psychiatry and behavior sciences at Vanderbilt University. “So if this drug is an effective way to get a more rapid response in people who are treatment resistant, and we can use it safely, then it could be a godsend.”One question that will need to be answered is how well esketamine performs in comparison to intravenous ketamine. Theresa, 57, an adjunct professor of English in New York, who asked that her last name be omitted to protect her privacy, has lived much of her life with deep depression. She tried a course of I.V. generic ketamine last summer, at a local clinic, which  typically entails a half-dozen infusions, given over a couple of weeks, for about $500 apiece, with follow-up “booster” treatments as needed.“I remember floating, I was really high,” she said. “I was tripping on sounds, textures and shapes, that was very much a part of it.” The first infusion provided no relief, she said. But after the third or fourth, she noticed a satisfying “shift” in her underlying mood. “It’s a hard thing to describe. I was still anxious, but I felt somehow more solid, like something gelled within me, and my husband has noticed it, too.”Dr. Glen Brooks, the founder and medical director of NY Ketamine Infusions, a clinic in downtown Manhattan, said he has treated some 2,300 people, of all ages, with intravenous ketamine, the generic anesthetic. His clients had received a variety of diagnoses, including post-traumatic stress, anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive disorder, as well as depression.“What they all have in common is that other medications have failed,” Dr. Brooks, an anesthesiologist, said. “They’re hopeless, and they think, ‘Nothing else has worked, why should this?’” He said that, in his experience, the infusions quickly reduced symptoms for teenagers and young adults, but seemed to be less effective for people over 50.The data that Janssen presented to the F.D.A. likewise suggested that esketamine was less effective in people aged 65 and older, barely better than placebo treatment.Ketamine was developed more than five decades ago as a safer alternative to the anesthetic phencyclidine, or PCP, and is used worldwide, in operating rooms, on the battlefield and in pediatric clinics. The World Health Organization has listed ketamine as one of its essential medicines since 1985.By the 1990s, interest turned to the drug’s potential to combat depression, when a government scientist named Phil Skolnick argued that targeting glutamate pathways — the primary “excitatory,” or neuroactivating, brain processes — could produce antidepressant effects. In 2000, a team of researchers at Yale University and the Connecticut Mental Health Center, led by Dr. Robert M. Berman, reported that doses of ketamine provided quick relief to seven people with depression. The field took off in 2006, when a team at the National Institute of Mental Health led by Dr. Carlos Zarate Jr. reported that 18 treatment-resistant people who received the drug intravenously reported that their despair lifted within hours. “What seems remarkable is that the drug also seems to help domains other than depression, like anxiety, suicidal thinking, and anhedonia” — the inability to feel pleasure — said Dr. Zarate, chief of the N.I.M.H.’s experimental therapeutics and pathophysiology branch. “It seems to have more broad effects, on many areas of mood.” The apparent ability of ketamine to blunt suicidal thinking is particularly compelling, and Janssen is pursuing this indication for esketamine. In jails and psychiatry wards, suicide is an acute risk for people in crisis, and a fast-acting drug could save many lives, doctors said. For now, no one knows whether esketamine, or any of the other ketamine-based compounds being studied, are any more effective than the generic anesthetic itself — or, for that matter, whether the out-of-body and hallucinatory “side effects” are in fact integral to its antidepressant properties.“For that, we will need head-to-head studies,” Dr. Zarate said. “And we don’t have those yet.”An earlier version of this article misstated the cost of treatment with esketamine. The correct cost is between $4,720 and $6,785, not between $2,360 and $3,540.Benedict Carey has been a science reporter for The Times since 2004. He has also written three books, “How We Learn” about the cognitive science of learning; “Poison Most Vial” and “Island of the Unknowns,” science mysteries for middle schoolers.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonARLINGTON, Tex. — With less than three minutes remaining in a tight N.F.L. playoff matchup with the Seattle Seahawks on Saturday night, Dallas quarterback Dak Prescott made the most memorable play of his three-year career. It couldn’t have come at a better time for the Cowboys.With his team leading by 3 points and looking to put the game out of reach, Prescott took the snap on third down at the Seattle 16-yard line, 14 yards from a first down. Settling for a field goal would give the Seahawks a chance to win. Dallas needed that first down.Seattle’s defense was set up for a pass, so Prescott took a few steps back, then charged forward. He found the seam and scooted past the first-down marker. He was tripped up around the 3-yard line, did a somersault and landed just short of the goal line. Two plays later, he again ran the ball, this time for a touchdown that gave his team a 10-point cushion — just enough for the Cowboys to hold on for a 24-22 victory. It was the first playoff win for Prescott and the Cowboys’ first postseason victory in four years.Run @Dak Run! #WPMOYChallenge + Prescott#FinishThisFight pic.twitter.com/ralOsZ63MQ“He took it on his shoulders,” the Cowboys’ owner, Jerry Jones, said of Prescott. “He made plays that put us in a position to come out like we did. That’s what you want from your quarterback.”Jones, Prescott and the Cowboys will face the Rams in Los Angeles next weekend in the divisional round of the playoffs.It won’t be easy. The Rams are even more dominant at home than they are on the road.Everything seems to be bigger in Texas, including expectations for the Cowboys. In football-mad Texas, Cowboys fans, rightly or wrongly, view anything but a championship as a lost season.The only problem is the Cowboys haven’t won a Super Bowl since 1996. Fans in places like Cleveland and Minnesota would love to have this problem. But Cowboys fans know that their team’s win on Saturday was just its fourth playoff victory since Jones collected his last Vince Lombardi trophy.Over that time, quarterbacks like Chad Hutchinson, Quincy Carter and Jon Kitna have failed to lead the team back to the promised land. Tony Romo, who lasted a decade, led the Cowboys to the postseason, where his teams flamed out.Enter Prescott. Jones, who is famously involved in player personnel decisions, signed off on choosing Prescott in the fourth round of the 2016 draft. Jared Goff (Rams), Carson Wentz (Eagles), Paxton Lynch (Broncos) and several other quarterbacks were drafted ahead of Prescott.Thus far, Prescott, 25, might be the best of the bunch. Goff has gaudier passing statistics, but Prescott has been clutch, with 15 game-winning drives, tied with Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson for most in a quarterback’s first three seasons. Like Wilson, Prescott can run the ball. He scored six rushing touchdowns in each of his three seasons.Of course, a big part of Prescott’s success depends on running back Ezekiel Elliott, who has led the league in rushing two of his three first seasons. On Saturday, Elliott ran for 137 yards and a touchdown and caught four passes for 32 yards.Prescott was solid, completing 22 of 33 passes for 226 yards and a touchdown. After three quiet games, wide receiver Amari Cooper came alive with 106 receiving yards. Wide receiver Tavon Austin played a key role, setting up one score with a 51-yard punt return.But Cowboys fans will remember Prescott’s run up the middle. Elliott called his performance “legendary,” which even by Texas standards seemed to be a stretch.“I’m three years in,” Prescott said sheepishly. “For him to say that, I’ll have to tell him not to say that again, or wait until later.”Later might be next weekend. The Rams’ defense ranked in the middle of the league in points given up. But they scored more than 500 points this season. Goff has a top-ranked running back behind him in Todd Gurley, as well as a selection of fleet-footed receivers.The Cowboys defense, led by linemen Randy Gregory and DeMarcus Lawrence, and rookie linebacker Leighton Vander Esch, gave up the seventh fewest yards per game this year.It will be up to Prescott, though, to figure out how to outscore the home team. Otherwise, Saturday’s victory will fade from view and his gutsy run forgotten, something Prescott seems to understand.“My goal is bigger than one playoff game,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Texans, Cowboys, Ravens and Bears are all favorites at home, but there may be some upsets lurking. Look out for the Colts.By Benjamin HoffmanIt was a race to the finish for teams like the Colts, the Ravens and the Eagles, but there is no time to celebrate as they all now have to back up their N.F.L. playoff positions by trying to beat fierce competition. The weekend’s wild-card matchups will be spread over two days, with a trip to the divisional round on the line.[Read: Tarik Cohen Makes Football Fun Again in Chicago]Here are our predictions for how the games will sort out, both in terms of who will win and who will win against the spread.Last week’s record against the spread: 11-5Final regular-season record: 139-111-54:35 p.m. Saturday, ESPN and ABCFrom 1990 to 2017, only three teams started the season 0-3 and made the playoffs. This season’s Texans (11-5) not only accomplished that feat, but, entering Week 17, they were also in contention to have the best record in the A.F.C.The turnaround is nothing short of remarkable. It is a testament to the quality of the team’s defense and the star power of its quarterback, Deshaun Watson, and No. 1 wide receiver, DeAndre Hopkins. But to join the 1992 San Diego Chargers as the only teams since 1990 to win a playoff game after starting 0-3, the Texans will have to get through Indianapolis, which had a worse start to overcome: 1-5.The Colts (10-6) were 9-1 after their terrible start, joining the 2015 Kansas City Chiefs as the only teams since 1990 to make the playoffs after such a poor start. And they did it with quality play all over the field, finishing with the N.F.L.’s fifth-ranked scoring offense and its 10th-ranked scoring defense.Indianapolis won on the road in Houston in Week 14, ending the Texans’ nine-game winning streak, thanks to an outrageous effort from T.Y. Hilton, who had 199 receiving yards. After that game, Hilton was not shy about his ability to succeed at Houston’s NRG Stadium.“This is my second home, man,” Hilton said with a laugh. “This is my second home. I don’t know. Every time I come here, I just go off. I don’t know what it is.”Hilton wasn’t wrong. In his seven career trips to Houston, he has averaged 133 yards a game and scored seven touchdowns while the Colts have gone 5-2. Indianapolis also benefits from a fully operational Andrew Luck, who went from three years of battling shoulder woes to attempting a career-high 639 passes this season — 39 of which went for touchdowns. The team has an emerging star at running back in Marlon Mack, and a touchdown machine at tight end in Eric Ebron. And its defense got a breakout year from the rookie linebacker Darius Leonard, who was snubbed from the Pro Bowl but managed an N.F.L.-leading 163 tackles to go with seven sacks, two interceptions and two fumble recoveries.The Colts don’t typically travel well, but Houston seems to bring out the best in them. They should have the upper hand on Saturday.Pick to win: ColtsPick against the spread: Colts +1.5 8:15 p.m. Saturday, FoxEzekiel Elliott won his second rushing title this season — in just his third year in the N.F.L. — despite sitting out Week 17. A dominant running back, he expects to shoulder the load for the Cowboys (10-6) in the playoffs, so the rest was welcome.“Just knowing that we’re going into these playoffs, I’m going to have the highest workload I probably had all season,” Elliott told reporters. Since Dallas was 6-1 in the seven games that Elliott carried the ball 20 or more times this season, and the Seahawks (10-6) allowed an ugly 4.9 yards a carry from opposing running backs, keeping the ball in Elliott’s hands is probably a good strategy. With Elliott, Dak Prescott and Amari Cooper all carrying the offense at different times this season, it’s easy to see why so many people focus on that side of the ball. But the Cowboys are in the playoffs largely because of a defense that has been retooled into something formidable. It allowed the sixth-fewest points in the N.F.L., was the No. 5 rushing defense, and while the secondary gave up more yards than it would have preferred, it became a far more formidable unit with the help of Kris Richard, a defensive backs coach who was one of the architects of Seattle’s Legion of Boom defense.Seattle probably deserved more attention for its play this season than it received. Largely written off in the preseason as a team that had reached the end of its contention window, the Seahawks easily qualified for the playoffs for the sixth time in seven seasons.Linebacker Bobby Wagner is still among the game’s best defensive players, and Russell Wilson managed to let the offense become more run-focused while still throwing 35 touchdown passes. And, as always, the Seahawks were a true force to be reckoned with at home. But this game is in Dallas, and expecting a team that was 4-4 on the road to win there seems unrealistic. Pick to win: CowboysPick against the spread: Cowboys -21:05 p.m. Sunday, CBSWith Lamar Jackson at quarterback, the Ravens (10-6) were so dominant running the ball that the total of 159 yards they managed in a Week 16 win over the Chargers (12-4) was actually the team’s low point. It is a style of play that would be more typical of the 1940s than today’s N.F.L., but the Ravens’ run-first approach under Jackson led to a 6-1 finish to the regular season, with a series of opponents walking away wondering what just hit them — including the Chargers, who lost to Baltimore at home, 22-10.[Keeping Score: Philip Rivers Doesn’t Need a Ring to Be Great]“We couldn’t get them off the field on defense,” Chargers Coach Anthony Lynn said after the game. “And we couldn’t stay on the field on offense. We got outplayed. We got outcoached. It’s just that simple.”It is hard to figure out what was more dominant once Jackson took over: Baltimore’s running game, which generated 1,607 yards in seven games, or its run defense, which allowed 429. Now the Chargers get a second crack against them, and while slowing Jackson and Gus Edwards is probably unlikely, Los Angeles can at least hope to generate more than the 10 points it managed at home in Week 16.There is some room to pass against the Ravens — Patrick Mahomes and Baker Mayfield each threw for more than 300 yards against them in the season’s second half — but the Chargers should proceed with caution as Baltimore generated 10 turnovers in its final six games.The Chargers had a terrific season, which taken in totality was more impressive than Baltimore’s. But unless they figure something out based on the film of their fairly humiliating loss two weeks ago, quarterback Philip Rivers may have his season end early once again.Pick to win: RavensPick against the spread: Ravens -2.54:40 p.m. Sunday, NBCThe Eagles (9-7) weren’t even supposed to make the playoffs after they fell to 6-7 and lost quarterback Carson Wentz to a serious back injury. Now they enter wild-card weekend on a three-game winning streak, hoping they can recreate the success of last season, when they entered each playoff game as an underdog and still won the Super Bowl.It is a great story regardless of how it turns out, and the backup quarterback Nick Foles deserves a great deal of credit for revitalizing an offense that had often looked stagnant under Wentz. This time around, the Eagles appear to be underdogs not just in name, but also in terms of overall talent compared with the Bears (12-4).Chicago rode its suffocating defense and a good-enough offense to the third-best record in the N.F.C., and its formula of forcing turnovers and running the ball tends to play well once January rolls around. The Eagles might not have to contend with Chicago’s best defensive back, Eddie Jackson, who is questionable with an ankle injury, but the Bears still have plenty of defenders who should give Foles nightmares, including Khalil Mack, Akiem Hicks and Kyle Fuller. Chicago’s offense is not nearly as advanced as its defense. Mitchell Trubisky is a tentative passer, but Jordan Howard and Tarik Cohen have the ability to grind games out on the ground. Because the defense scores so much on its own, the Bears finished with the ninth-most points in the N.F.L. despite being ranked 21st in total yards. By no means should Philadelphia be written off in this game, as the Eagles have a championship-winning defense in place and an offense that is on a hot streak. But beating one of the top teams in the N.F.L., on the road, is likely out of the Eagles’ reach.Pick to win: BearsPick against the spread: Eagles +6Kansas City, New England, New Orleans, Los Angeles (Rams)All times are Eastern.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaNot so long ago the idea of merely setting foot in the United States would have filled FIFA’s leaders with dread. The idea of holding an important meeting there would have been rejected as absurd.That was because a sprawling corruption indictment by the United States Department of Justice in 2015 had threatened the very existence of FIFA, the governing body of world soccer. The investigation had produced the dawn arrests of more than a dozen top power brokers in the sport and eventually led to the ouster of some of the organization’s most powerful figures. It left others fearful of traveling to the United States for any reason, lest they risk being picked up by the authorities.Yet this week, almost four years later, FIFA is bringing the members of its governing council — a body that, in an earlier incarnation, was accused by the American authorities of engaging in graft schemes dating back decades — to United States soil for the first time since the scandal broke. The 37-member body, an expanded group now known as the FIFA Council, will hold a meeting in Miami on Friday to discuss, among other things, a significant expansion of the 2022 World Cup and a multibillion-dollar plan for a new World Cup-style competition for clubs.The site of the meeting, FIFA says, is the latest sign that it has moved on from its corrupt past.“It’s probably fair to say that there is a symbolic significance for the FIFA Council to meet in the U.S.A. for the first time since 2015,” FIFA, which is based in Zurich, said in a statement.Four years ago, images of police officers leading soccer officials out of a luxury Swiss hotel in two separate dawn raids gripped the sporting world, unleashing a crisis that has cost FIFA millions of dollars and led to years of turmoil. Dozens of soccer officials, businessmen and companies have since pleaded guilty to charges in United States courts; others are fighting extradition; and two men, including the former head of South American soccer, were jailed after a 2017 trial in New York. The crisis also led to the ouster of a number of executives not named in the indictments, including FIFA’s longtime president at the time, Joseph S. Blatter.While there is little sign another blockbuster raid is in the offing, United States authorities’ interest in FIFA has not dimmed. Multiple defendants who have pleaded guilty in the case have not yet been sentenced, with prosecutors again agreeing this year to push back decisions about the punishments of at least five people, including an Argentine businessman who testified at the New York trial and has served as a key cooperating witness.“FIFA remains ready to assist public authorities in all cases and, while the experience was difficult, we are finally very grateful that the U.S. Department of Justice intervened when it did to address some serious governance problems and, in so doing, help put FIFA on the path to reform,” its statement added.The current leadership has attempted to build bridges with the American authorities. FIFA’s top legal official, the deputy secretary general Alasdair Bell, made it a priority to visit Brooklyn and meet with prosecutors upon joining the soccer body in September. His visit came a month after FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, met with President Trump at the White House.Such trips were considered perilous four years ago. Blatter and his former No. 2, Jérôme Valcke, who faces a separate corruption investigation in Switzerland, skipped the Women’s World Cup when it was held in Canada in the summer of 2015, only weeks after the first raids in Switzerland. Other officials also have stayed safely out of reach.FIFA has not confirmed whether any council members will skip next week’s meeting, though at least one may not travel, according to a person familiar with the council member’s thinking.Coming to Miami also renews focus on Concacaf, the regional confederation that governs soccer in North and Central America and Caribbean. Based in the city, Concacaf is one of soccer’s six regional governing bodies, but it perhaps felt the most damage from the scandal: three of its former presidents were charged by United States authorities, and an internal probe later found multiple examples of rogue behavior, including self-dealing, indiscriminate use of private jets and even the recruitment of a private detective to snoop on individuals, including the former U.S. Soccer president Sunil Gulati, who still sits on the FIFA Council.Concacaf, which  nearly closed amid a banking crisis brought on by the Justice Department case, is largely prospering after introducing governance reforms. It has also changed headquarters, moving from a location in Miami Beach that was the target of F.B.I. raids in 2015 to a new office in the city’s business district.Its current president, Victor Montagliani of Canada, said Concacaf had “long turned the page” on its existential crisis.“Having FIFA come to Miami for the first time since the events of 2015 marks a momentum forward for world football,” he said, “and we are glad to play our part.”While its worst days may have passed, global soccer continues to be dogged by sporadic episodes of unethical behavior by senior figures. A Ghanaian member of the FIFA Council, Kwesi Nyantakyi, received a lifetime ban last year after being caught on camera accepting thousands of dollars in cash from an undercover reporter. And last week, another council member, Lee Harmon of the Cook Islands, received a three-month ban for the illegal resale of tickets to last year’s World Cup in Russia.To Miguel Maduro, a former governance head at FIFA, the continuing problems are both structural and cultural, part of a system that he said was still being run as a “political cartel.” Infantino, for example, will stand unopposed for re-election later this year in an election that will mirror the one for the presidency of European soccer in February. In that race, the incumbent, Aleksander Ceferin, was re-elected by acclamation.Perhaps the biggest sign of FIFA’s difficulties in changing the culture is its inability to wean the council members who will be in Miami off the kind of lifestyle even they have acknowledged to be excessive. At previous meetings, for example, members have described being met on the airport tarmac and whisked to luxury hotels without having to go through the usual arrival protocol. Even after FIFA’s reforms, they receive annual salaries of $250,000, plus an additional per diem, to attend as few as three meetings a year.“That’s one of the reasons you maintain the cartel,” Maduro said. “You have to satisfy the people that keep you in power.”Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherKareem Hunt, the former Kansas City Chiefs star running back who was captured on video pushing and kicking a woman, was suspended without pay for the first eight games of the regular season by the N.F.L. on Friday.Hunt, who joined the Cleveland Browns in February, a year after the incident, will not appeal the suspension, which will mean he will miss the first half of the season.The N.F.L. said in a statement that the suspension came in connection with a physical altercation at his residence in Cleveland last February and at a resort in Ohio last June.The league recently completed its investigation, which it said included “reviewing available law enforcement records, video and electronic communications, interviews with numerous witnesses, and multiple interviews with Hunt.”The eight-game suspension, which will start at the beginning of the regular season, is one of the heaviest for players involved in abuse and violence cases.The league’s handling of these cases has been under intense scrutiny since 2014, when Commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Ray Rice for two games after video emerged of him punching his fiancée. The suspension was roundly criticized as too short, and Goodell later apologized and strengthened penalties for violence and abuse.Less than two weeks later, more vivid video of Rice punching his fiancée was published by the celebrity website TMZ. The league suspended Rice indefinitely, a penalty that was later overturned, and he has never returned to the N.F.L. The league’s policies and investigative abilities have also been tested in abuse cases involving Greg Hardy, Adrian Peterson, Josh Brown and other players.The N.F.L. has hired former prosecutors and others with experience in investigating misconduct cases. Even so, the league has had to walk a fine line between taking a tough stand against violence against women and waiting to complete its investigations before deciding whether to penalize a player or league executive.In the incident at Hunt’s residence, an upscale apartment in downtown Cleveland, the videotaped altercation with a woman did not result in a police case. Hunt pushed a 19-year-old woman, and was then held back by other men. He broke free, and the woman fell down in the chaos. Hunt then kicked her. In the resort incident several months later, Hunt is accused of punching a man in the face. No charges were filed in that case either.The cases renewed debate and discussion over how seriously the N.F.L. investigates and punishes players’ behavior off the field, particularly fights and assaults that are reported but do not result in police charges.An examination of the league’s investigation shows that the N.F.L. relied heavily on the word of the Chiefs, who had a vested interest in keeping their star running back on the field, and did not press to independently verify the account of the incident that Hunt gave to them.When the video emerged in November, the N.F.L. suspended Hunt, though it had learned of the altercation months earlier. The Chiefs, who also knew of the incident long before, then released him.The N.F.L. said it was unable to obtain the video, which TMZ published. League officials suggested that TMZ had paid for the video, which they said the league would not do for fear others might try to extort money from the N.F.L.Hunt had starred as a rookie for the team in 2017, leading the league in rushing yards, and had played well again in his second season, gaining 824 yards in 11 games.In February, Hunt was signed by the Browns. John Dorsey, the general manager, said: “Given what we know about Kareem through our extensive research, we believe he deserves a second chance.”In the announcement, Hunt was quoted as saying: “First off, I would like to once again apologize for my actions last year. What I did was wrong and inexcusable.”Signing Hunt was a risk because he faced disciplinary action from the league. But the Browns have been eager to make over the once woeful team. After 1-15 and 0-16 seasons, the team, led by the promising rookie quarterback Baker Mayfield, raced to a 7-8-1 record in the 2018 season, its best since 2007. Hopes are high for an even better season next year: On Tuesday the team traded for the receiving superstar Odell Beckham Jr. from the Giants.Hunt grew up in a suburb of Cleveland and went to the University of Toledo.The Browns are not the only team willing to sign a player under a cloud. In 2015, the Cowboys signed Hardy, a defensive lineman who had been convicted of beating his girlfriend. The case was dismissed on appeal. The N.F.L. suspended Hardy for 10 games, but the penalty was reduced to four games on appeal.In November, the Redskins claimed linebacker Reuben Foster off waivers after he was released by the San Francisco 49ers days after he was arrested in Tampa, Fla., on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge.The league suspended Foster indefinitely with pay, but the Redskins signed him anyway. The charges against Foster were dropped in January.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonA little more than a week after prosecutors in Florida charged Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, with soliciting prostitution, what ordinarily would be a minor case has become a legal battle involving some of the most expensive and sought-after lawyers in the country.To lead his defense, Mr. Kraft, a billionaire friend of President Trump and one of the most powerful owners in the N.F.L., has retained William A. Burck, who was a lawyer in the George W. Bush White House and had a role in the screening of documents related to Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh’s recent Supreme Court nomination. Mr. Kraft has also hired Jack Goldberger, the Florida lawyer who defended Jeffrey E. Epstein, a wealthy New York financier accused of trafficking underage girls for sex.Mr. Goldberger and Mr. Burck did not return calls for comment, but they could mount an aggressive defense by poking holes in video evidence that may prove that Mr. Kraft did not ask anyone for sex and by arguing that the police violated Mr. Kraft’s Fourth Amendment rights during an improper traffic stop, among other arguments.Prosecutors in Palm Beach County, Fla., so far have taken a hard line on Mr. Kraft and the two dozen other individuals who have been accused of soliciting prostitution at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa, a massage parlor and salon in a Jupiter, Fla., strip mall about a 30-minute drive from Mr. Kraft’s home in Palm Beach. Last week, they increased the severity of the charges, from second-degree to first-degree misdemeanors.Prosecutors say Mr. Kraft’s arrest was a part of a larger, six-month investigation into human trafficking at nearly a dozen businesses in Florida.“Human trafficking is evil in our midst,” Dave Aronberg, the state attorney for Palm Beach County, who is overseeing the cases, said last week. “It is fueled on the demand side.”Prosecutors have acknowledged that Mr. Kraft and the other men charged in the case probably had no knowledge of whether human trafficking was involved. But Mr. Kraft’s wealth and notoriety have turned what would have been a local story into an international one, so prosecutors will want to avoid appearing to treat him differently, especially if the case involves human trafficking, criminal lawyers in Florida said.“State attorneys are elected officials, and they are aware of public opinion,” said Eric M. Matheny, a former prosecutor in Miami-Dade County who defends people accused of sex crimes. “They might play hardball, if only for appearance’ sake.”Mr. Kraft is likely to be in little legal danger. He has been charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting a prostitute, and he faces up to a year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service. But he is unlikely to spend a day in jail. Prosecutors often offer first-time offenders a chance to pay a fine and perform community service, while not admitting fault.Even if they feel they can win their case, most defendants take the deal rather than augment the shame of being arrested. After a deal is reached, defendants typically have 60 or 90 days to complete their community service and classes. After they prove they finished their obligations, the charges are dropped. The defendants then petition the court to have their records expunged.Mr. Kraft is in a different position. Like many people facing similar charges, he has pleaded not guilty, but as the owner of a professional football team, he has a strong incentive to try to get the charges dismissed.His lawyers could ask why the police waited months to install cameras inside the massage parlor. There is also a question of whether the police acted lawfully when they asked Mr. Kraft for identification during a traffic stop after his first visit to the spa, which was caught on video, even though he was a passenger, and not the driver, in the car.Mr. Kraft’s lawyers could question why the police did not get search warrants earlier if they had suspected that sex was being sold inside and that some of the women were being held against their will. Were the cameras merely installed once authorities learned that Mr. Kraft was a patron and saw an opportunity to gain publicity?If the video also captured people getting ordinary massages, lawyers could also argue that the surveillance overreached and therefore the video is inadmissible. Also, the video cameras that the police used did not have audio, so there may not be clear evidence of Mr. Kraft asking to pay for sex.“Just showing a video, you don’t know the conversation that occurred,” Mr. Matheny said. “With prostitution cases, it’s very technical what they say. It can’t be vague.”Prosecutors may have a witness who can attest that Mr. Kraft asked for sex. In addition, if they enter the video into evidence it may become public, something that Mr. Kraft would most likely want to avoid.“The state can certainly use the strength of their evidence as a negotiating tool,” said Ron Herman, who worked as a prosecutor in South Florida for six years on cases involving sexual assault or battery and who is now in private practice.If the video becomes public, or his court case is televised, which is possible in state court in Florida, Mr. Kraft’s problems could go from bad to worse. It would increase the pressure on the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell, to punish Mr. Kraft more severely, and potentially diminish his standing in ownership circles, where he is responsible for helping to negotiate media contracts that produce the bulk of the N.F.L.’s $14 billion in annual revenue.Mr. Kraft’s lawyers are likely to fight tooth and nail to ensure that the video never becomes public, opening yet another front in a litigation that under normal circumstances would involve little effort or expense.“If there’s no prior history, it should be resolved,” said John S. Hager, a former criminal prosecutor in Florida now in private practice.These, of course, are not normal circumstances.“If Kraft goes to trial and the judge allows the cameras to be played, it will be on national TV, so you compound the embarrassment,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., the son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a former prosecutor in Florida. “Kraft has a severe downside by going to trial. He can win the trial, but he can still lose.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOhio State 28, Washington 23 | Rose BowlBy Mike TierneyPASADENA, Calif. — A colleague once advised Urban Meyer to find a moment amid each game to savor. At Ohio State, the regimented coach customarily would remove his headset between the third and fourth quarters to soak in the university marching band blasting the vintage rock tune “Hang On Sloopy.”The better the Buckeyes were playing, the longer he would listen.On Tuesday, as Meyer’s dominant squad built what appeared to be an irreversible lead over Washington in the 105th Rose Bowl, the coach was able to take in every last note.“This has been on the bucket list,” Meyer said of winning his first Rose Bowl. “I love all the other bowls, but being a Big Ten guy from Ohio and watching the Rose Bowl in the ’70s with Archie Griffin, it’s everything everybody says it was.”In what Meyer maintains was a football coaching farewell that came as a result of his own health concerns, the No. 6 Buckeyes withstood a late rally by No. 9 Washington to prevail, 28-23, and make a mild case that omitting them from the College Football Playoff in lieu of Oklahoma (slow out of the starting blocks against Alabama) and Notre Dame (glued to the blocks against Clemson) was an oversight.As for Meyer, himself, he departs with a somewhat complicated legacy, with great achievements on the field tarnished to a degree by things that occurred away from it.He won three national titles — one with Ohio State and two with the University of Florida — and his winning percentage of .853 is unmatched among active coaches. Yet the school suspended him three games this season, concluding he mishandled the issue of an assistant coach accused of domestic abuse. And at his previous stop, in Florida, there were a considerable number of players involved in off-field misconduct.So while there is no denying his genius as a coach, to his critics, at least, the reports that he would start his retirement by helping instruct a business class at Ohio State on leadership and character seemed like satire. In fact, he will be doing just that.Meanwhile, against Washington on Tuesday, Meyer’s Buckeyes (13-1) corrected this season’s main deficiency — yielding long gains on the ground. Coming into the game, Ohio State had allowed six rushing touchdowns of more than 75 yards, the most by any Football Bowl Subdivision defense since 2003.The Huskies (10-4), however, scrounged out just 3.6 yards per carry, with their lengthiest running play covering 19 yards. They resorted to a tailback pass by Myles Gaskin in the fourth quarter to finally put a touchdown on the scoreboard.Washington’s quarterback, Jake Browning, helped generate two additional scoring drives in the fourth quarter, both on Gaskin rushes, the latter with just 42 seconds left in the game. But a failed 2-point conversion and an onside kick attempt easily recovered by Ohio State closed out the comeback attempt and sent Meyer into retirement with a meaningful victory.Pressed to reveal his thoughts in the last minute, Meyer said, “It was, ‘Are you kidding me?’ until we got the onside kick.”Last week, Meyer labeled his quarterback Dwayne Haskins’ two previous games — 11 touchdowns passes, 895 yards — as among “the best performances in college football history.”Yet, on the Buckeyes’ first scoring drive on Tuesday, all but three of the initial 65 yards came on runs, mainly by Mike Weber, who carried the ball four times for 52 yards on the drive.With the Huskies anticipating another run, Haskins then hit a wide-open Parris Campbell for a 12-yard touchdown, providing an early validation for Ohio State having named Ryan Day, the team’s offensive coordinator, as Meyer’s successor.Washington untangled itself from a dreadful start offensively — two three-and-outs — and drove to a field goal, only to concede another lengthy march by Ohio State that ended in a touchdown on Haskins’ 19-yard toss to Johnnie Dixon.The Huskies’ offense was so quiet in the first half that Browning’s shining occasion was a punt out of a shotgun formation that was downed at Ohio State’s 3-yard line.Still another three-and-out by Washington on its next series enabled the Buckeyes to flip the field. For Haskins’ third scoring strike, they needed to motor only 47 yards, with Haskins finishing the drive with a 1-yard touchdown pass to Rashod Berry.The scoreboard said 21-3 at halftime. The feeling in the stadium said the gap was wider, and the perception remained so when Washington went backward on consecutive snaps from Ohio State’s 32-yard line after accepting the second-half kickoff.Seven plays later, the Buckeyes seemingly put to bed any doubt that Meyer would not exit on a high note. Reversing the script of the first score, Haskins threw for all but two of the 77 yards the Buckeyes traveled, and then handed off to J.K. Dobbins for a 3-yard touchdown run.Meyer’s prior departure from coaching was caused by excessive stress. Though reduced, it has not been eradicated. Asked recently if he feels nervous before games, Meyer said, “Deathly ill might be more appropriate.”After Tuesday’s game, Meyer half-joked that in previous years a cellphone would have been at his ear as he walked off the Rose Bowl field, with the coach seeking updates on recruits.“The new guy has got to worry about that,” he said.But while there are few who would be surprised if Meyer, a mere 54, ends up going back into coaching at some point down the road, for the moment, he seemed interested in savoring this victory.“While we enjoyed tonight, I don’t believe I’m going to coach again,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleHave you heard of Zion Williamson?Some are calling him the next LeBron James. At 6 feet 7 inches and 285 pounds, Williamson, a freshman basketball player at Duke University, is impressing fans with his combination of size, strength and leaping ability. Many are captivated by his thrilling monster dunks.On Feb. 20, less than a minute into a nationally televised game against archrival North Carolina, Williamson injured his right knee when one of his Nike sneakers “exploded.” (Watch here to see what happened to the shoe.) With March Madness less than a month away, his injury has revived an age-old question: Should college athletes be paid?In “Zion Williamson’s Injury Has Some Saying He Should Quit Duke,” Marc Tracy writes:A freakish injury to Duke’s Zion Williamson, college basketball’s best and most prominent player, only seconds into a game on Wednesday night has instantaneously renewed a debate about the contradictions of the sport’s economic foundation, shining a harsh new light on the N.C.A.A.’s policy of amateurism and the influence of billion-dollar shoe companies.It also raised an important question: Should Williamson ever suit up for another college game?Fans were asking the question. An N.B.A. player was, too, even before Duke announced that Williamson had sprained his right knee in the fall.“It’s a legitimate question,” said Ramogi Huma, the founder and president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for players’ rights.In the first minute of top-ranked Duke’s game against its archrival, eighth-ranked North Carolina, Williamson, a 6-fotot-7, 285-pound forward whose game is a blend of quickness and power, pivoted with the ball near the free-throw line. As he planted a foot to reverse direction, his left sneaker collapsed and tore apart from the sheer torque of the move.Williamson fell backward in a split, grabbing his right knee. He walked off the court, and did not return. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said afterward that Williamson had sustained a knee injury, but that the joint was “stable.”Pending further testing, the general sense is that Williamson — and Duke, and Nike, which made the shoe — had avoided the worst. Williamson, widely considered the nation’s best college player, is expected to be available to Duke in time for its conference tournament or the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins in a month.That is, should Williamson elect to return.Huma cited the example of a top football player who found himself with a more serious injury a few years ago; that player elected to end his college career prematurely, to limit the risk to his professional payday. “To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Huma said.The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple. Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.That is how the college sports economy works, even as Duke; its conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference; television networks; and, of course, Nike, the apparel company that sponsors Duke and made the shoe that so spectacularly ripped apart, reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes like Williamson.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Do you think college athletes should be paid? Or is a college scholarship and other non-monetary perks like the opportunity to play in front of cheering fans enough?— Do you think college athletic programs, the N.C.A.A. and shoe companies like Nike are taking advantage of college athletes like Williamson? Why or why not?— In a related Opinion piece, “Paying Students to Play Would Ruin College Sports,” Cody J. McDavis writes:Paying student-athletes might sound like a fairer way to treat students who generate so much money and attention for their colleges (not to mention the television networks that broadcast their games). But paying athletes would distort the economics of college sports in a way that would hurt the broader community of student-athletes, universities, fans and alumni. A handful of big sports programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while almost every other college would get caught up in a bidding war it couldn’t afford.Do you find his argument persuasive? What possible difficulties or downsides might there be in providing monetary compensation to players?— If you were Williamson, would you continue playing for Duke this season and risk injury? Or would you sit out the rest of the college season and enter the N.B.A. draft — where he will likely be the No. 1 overall pick and earn a multimillion-dollar contract?Related New York Times coverage:Everyone Loves to Watch Zion Williamson Play. Maybe as Much as He Loves Playing.How the N.C.A.A. Cheats Student AthletesA Way to Start Paying College AthletesOther Resources:College Athletes Getting Paid? Here Are Some Pros and Cons — HuffPostShould College Athletes Be Paid? Why, They Already Are — Sports IllustratedThere’s No Crying in College: The Case Against Paying College Athletes — Bleacher ReportStudents 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementPast TenseThe queens of Motown play the posh suburbs."One of the most popular rock and roll combinations in the nation, the Supremes, entertain the party," read the photographer's notes. June 18, 1965.CreditCreditAllyn Baum/The New York TimesSupported byBy Alexis ClarkIt’s a vision of two Detroits that have mostly faded now — the social set born of the American auto industry’s vast wealth and the galvanizing magic of ’60s Motown — together in a room.In June 1965, the Supremes, one of America’s biggest and most glamorous groups, performed at a debutante party at the Country Club of Detroit in Grosse Pointe, Mich., the posh all-white enclave just northeast of the city.It was the debutante party of Christy Cole Wilson, and The New York Times pictures of the event tell a layered story of two groups connected, at least for the evening, by the music of that time and place. The three elegant darlings of Detroit, led by the 21-year-old Diana Ross, serenade a room of finely attired guests, many of practically the same age. But between the groups were also the realities of race and class — the distance between Grosse Pointe and the Brewster projects where the Supremes grew up, 10 miles and several worlds away.The Times covered the lavish event in avid detail. “It took three days, hundreds of fresh blue irises, thousands of little Italian lights and hundreds of thousands of yellow plastic flowers to turn the club into a French garden,” the story enthused. “Whole walls had disappeared behind Austrian silk panels of gold and mirrors before the 750 guests arrived.”Not until the eighth paragraph did the story mention that “when they were not dancing and being entertained by a rock ‘n’ roll group called the Supremes, the Wilsons and their guests were polishing off 20 cases of French champagne, attempting to create a liquor shortage (the plot failed), and heaping their plates with food from an abundantly stocked buffet table.”The trio hardly needed an identifier at that point. Between August 1964 and June 1965, the Supremes had five No. 1 singles, including “Baby Love,” “Stop! In the Name of Love” and “Back in My Arms Again,” which had gone to the top of the charts just six days before this party. Which is exactly why Ms. Wilson’s parents hired them.“Everyone had very glamorous deb parties when I was growing up,” said Ms. Wilson Hofmann, 72, who now lives in Bristol, R.I.Her father, Ralph C. Wilson Jr., a millionaire insurance scion who had “a stable in Lexington, Ky., and the Buffalo Bills football team,” seemed happy to toast his daughter in such style. The event reportedly cost $85,000, which would be roughly $675,000 today. (This was just the hometown event; the 18-year-old Ms. Wilson had already been formally presented at the Debutante Cotillion and Christmas Ball in New York in December 1964.)It was an era when families of distinction across the country presented their daughters to society, with the intention that suitable men from similar backgrounds would meet their future wives. In Grosse Pointe, it was the “Ford girls,” the great-granddaughters of Henry Ford, who had ramped up the deb-ball arms race. Nat King Cole sang at Charlotte Ford’s storied party in 1959, while Ella Fitzgerald performed at her sister Anne’s soiree in 1961.Racial dynamics were changing in the 1960s, but often in fits and starts. The Supremes performing at a private club in Grosse Pointe, which still had no black residents, reflected this lurching progress. “Music filtered in,” said Izzy Donnelly, the director of education at the Grosse Pointe Historical Society. “The ’60s were about breaking tradition. Bringing black entertainers to debutante balls and private clubs was putting a big foot in the front door.”It wasn’t an intentional political statement to hire the Supremes to perform at her party, Ms. Wilson Hofmann said. She chose them because she loved their music, and she was from a family that could make her request happen.“I grew up in Grosse Pointe and loved the Supremes and that kind of music, like the Temptations and Marvin Gaye,” said Ms. Wilson Hofmann.“They were extraordinarily popular with white audiences, black audiences and everyone else,” said Dolores Barclay, an author and adjunct professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, who collaborated with Diana Ross on the singer’s memoir. “Appearing in white venues was breaking down racial barriers. But it’s a different type of disruption. It’s nonconfrontational. It’s having a platform and saying, ‘Yes, we’re here, we’re great and we’re a part of American music.’”The Supremes were homegrown celebrities in Detroit and received star treatment, but there were black entertainers across the country still entering clubs and performance halls through the kitchen.“Anything in the South was still tenuous,” said Coraleen Rawls, collections manager at the Motown Museum in Detroit. “On one hand, we had artists who were happy to perform because that’s their passion and vocation. But it was also disheartening to be international stars and still be treated differently.”Just two years after Ms. Wilson’s debut, Detroit would experience the devastating unrest of 1967, as the city’s racial and economic disparities exploded into national awareness. And the Motown sound would prove to be a powerful force in the healing process.“It unified people and brought us all together,” Ms. Rawls said. “Where there were ropes between whites and blacks, those ropes started disappearing, as the people on both sides were like, ‘We’re all dancing. Why do we have to have a rope in the middle? You’re dancing, I’m dancing. We’re singing, you’re singing, so why do we have to be separated by some rope because of some thoughts prior to our generation as to how you think we should be?’”The year after the Supremes played Ms. Wilson’s party, the first black family moved to Grosse Pointe, and by 1974, The Times reported that three African-American families called the town home. In 2019, Grosse Pointe Farms, where the Country Club of Detroit is, remains 94 percent white, while the city of Detroit is 79 percent black.The deb parties continued in Grosse Pointe, albeit in a scaled-back fashion. In 1970, The Times covered the celebration for Sheila Ford, another heir of the automobile family. She opted for a short purple dress instead of traditional formal attire, and hired the group Sha-Na-Na, who “played what the listeners called real modern blues music.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersWe asked readers to discuss how the people they met and classes they took influenced them, and how much going to an elite school matters.To the Editor:My admittance to Stanford was my golden ticket to a college nicknamed “Paradise,” where learning from Pulitzer Prize-winning authors and being mentored by paradigm-changing scientists were normal. Stanford opened doors I never even knew existed, having grown up in a small, agricultural town in Northern California. A little thing called an “endowment” changed my life. When I graduated in 2018, I was no longer a small-town girl, but rather a young adult, itching to contribute something meaningful. Stanford transformed my flimsy desire to become a doctor into a fiery passion to become a leader in health care — all because I had witnessed this leadership in my mentors and friends.Today, I still question what it means to attend an “elite” college, especially as admissions scandals unfold. But what I do know is that these colleges can open doors for those who want to rectify flawed systems and are hungry to elevate others. Small-town girls like me just need the exposure. To those on admissions committees: Admit more of us. Doing so can improve communities and generations to come.Shin Mei ChanSan FranciscoTo the Editor:I have a vivid recollection of the conversation that occurred in the parking lot of an independent prep school where I taught years ago. A colleague asked me, somewhat incredulously, “Wait a minute — you went to a state college?” There was a pause as I nodded in the affirmative, then came the kicker: “Oh, but I thought you were brilliant.”In places such as these, and too often in the job market, attending an “elite” college matters very much. The fact is, it shouldn’t matter at all. My dad was retired; we could not afford an expensive college. I earned a full-tuition scholarship and paid my own way. I pursued graduate work at an “elite” engineering school and earned an advanced degree from a large university. Neither was inherently superior in terms of the education it delivered.The college experiences that shaped my life the most centered around getting to know people from diverse backgrounds and learning to solve problems independently. Where or if a person went to college should matter far less than what a person has learned and become along the way in life.George WhittemorePrinceton, Mass.To the Editor:My community college experience saved my life. After graduating from high school, moving around and floundering in minimum-wage jobs, I returned to my hometown to live with my parents. I was depressed and attempted suicide. During my recovery, I started attending the community college in my hometown. At first, I resisted enrolling in our local community college because I felt there was a stigma. But when I did, I found a menagerie of students from all walks of life and professors who were deeply passionate about their students.Class by class, the depression that had held me down for so long began to lift. I joined the honors program and then helped mentor other students. I presented at an undergraduate research conference. Along the way, I met my fiancé and built a network of peers and mentors who helped me get where I am today.I cannot emphasize enough the importance of community colleges. Their support systems, small and tight-knit communities, and affordability are truly unrivaled. Today, I am working to destigmatize the college experience I owe everything to.Sarah OlsonCorvallis, Ore.The writer will be an undergraduate transfer student at Oregon State University in the fall.To the Editor:I arrived for my freshman year at Yale still wondering why I had been admitted. I was delighted and humbled by my access to all the resources, human and physical, that a great and prestigious university has to offer. I wish I could do it again, but as an adult. Yale was an amazing treat, like being taken on an exotic vacation.My diploma must have conferred a little prestige when I went looking for a job, but that’s all. In my 45 years in the working world, I always saw employees judged on cooperation and performance, not pedigree. In fact, being thought of as an intellectual fancy pants became an obstacle once in a while.A degree from a fancy school is like having a fancy suit. Delightful if you care about such things, but overpriced, overhyped and meaningless in our universal quest toward living a life we love.We are all blessed with immense and unearned privilege the day we are born. It is called being an American.Philip BowlesSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Duke. That single word changed my life in 1966. It’s right there on my license plate. DUKEMD. I had never been south of Washington, D.C. I had not even visited the campus of my “safety” school in North Carolina. I was going to Yale. Except I didn’t get in.I found myself in a foreign land of segregated restaurants, hushpuppies that you ate, not wore, alpaca sweaters, tassel loafers, ties at football games and something called Brunswick stew. I also discovered that people with thick Southern accents could run rings around me in chemistry class. And I thought I was smart!I was pre-med, but I took many mandatory liberal arts courses. Thank goodness I did. It was in Religion 2 that I first read the New Testament and in psychology that I read Freud. Those classes left the biggest impressions on me as they opened my horizons to novel (for me) ways of thinking.I owe the rest of my 50 years, including meeting my wife in Duke Medical School, to that very foreign land in Durham, N.C. Did it matter that I went to Duke? I bet my life it did.Leonard A. ZwellingBellaire, Tex.To the Editor:I graduated in 1957 from a competitive public high school in Brooklyn. After my brother entered Swarthmore in 1951 when I was 11, my mother began grooming me and pressuring me to get admitted there, too. I worked hard academically, became an editor of a school publication, and took tutoring lessons all to prevent the catastrophe of being rejected.I did get into Swarthmore, and during my first semester began to experience the incapacitating depressions that would haunt me for the rest of my life. I still remember clearly my first visit home at Thanksgiving. I was riding the IRT subway to Brooklyn and looking at the other riders and thinking, “I wonder if any of these people are smart enough to go to Swarthmore, but I’m sure they are all happier than I am.”Elsa PrigozySlingerlands, N.Y.To the Editor:Can four years change your life? I arrived on the Brandeis campus in the late summer of 1982, a fresh-faced kid from a small town in upstate New York. During my time at school I met the woman who would become my wife. Made friends who are still my closest. Became a Deadhead. Partied a lot (sorry, Mom and Dad!). Studied a bit. Began playing guitar.I learned how big the world actually is, and realized for the first time how much a part of that world I was. My mind grew, opened up. My heart changed. I became, essentially and fundamentally, who I am today.One conversation with a professor sticks with me. I was a middling student. He grabbed me after class and we talked for maybe five minutes. I don’t remember exactly what he said. It had something to do with my potential, with something he saw in me that I didn’t see. I walked out of his office and thought of myself in a different way. Suddenly there was an intellectual curiosity, almost a kind of muse, that I am still following. I wonder if he ever knew?(Rabbi) Steve SchwartzBaltimoreTo the Editor:I was accepted to M.I.T. as a transfer student in 1975. It is hard to overestimate the impact of that elite name on the undergraduate degree I earned there in mechanical engineering. People’s response to me changes when they hear I graduated from M.I.T. It’s like an automatic in. Forty years later it is still featured prominently at the top of my résumé.Gail Whoriskey ZwerlingSomerville, Mass.To the Editor:I earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from South Dakota State University in the 1990s. Immediately after graduating I moved to the East Coast, where many people I met couldn’t find South Dakota on a map and had certainly never heard of the university. I was able to find jobs with good companies in various large cities and to build a decent career. After a few years in the work force, it seemed to matter more where I had worked than where I went to college. I was probably not called in to interview by some companies because I hadn’t attended a prestigious university, but there are plenty of great employers who look at more than alma mater. All that said, I’ve seen how attending certain schools opens many doors. It’s not a guarantee of success, but there’s no denying that graduates of top schools have a leg up.I have a 2-year-old and I already think about where she’ll go to college. It will ultimately be her choice, but I will strongly suggest elite institutions. Despite my own positive experience and my desire for it to not matter, it absolutely does.Jennifer Healy KeintzEden, S.D.To the Editor:My undergraduate college experience was scattered, extraordinary and rich. The first year was spent at the College of St. Benedict in central Minnesota, where my eyes were opened to the Benedictines’ world of history and literature. Sister Colman cast me in Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” and I fell in love with the theater.The next year I studied with the Franciscans at the College of Saint Teresa in Winona, Minn. Sister Bernetta’s huge graphic representation of Dante’s “Inferno,” which occupied a whole wall and an entire semester of study, will stay with me until I die.My last two years were spent at the University of Minnesota, where professors like John Berryman, Saul Bellow, William Van O’Connor and Robert Penn Warren were astonishing me daily. A new world opened. I began to question everything, and to embrace learning as a means to a fulfilling life.As Rilke says in “Letters to a Young Poet”: “Try to love the questions themselves. ... Do not now seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything.”Judith Koll HealeyMinneapolisThe writer is a novelist and biographer.To the Editor:I graduated from LeMoyne College in Syracuse, N.Y., in 1989 — good Jesuit liberal arts school, but by no means “elite.” The best professor I had there was a poet named Barbara Clarkson. A student of Auden and Roethke at Bennington College, she taught us how to write and be passionate about poetry. Her office was in the basement next to the janitor’s closet. She smoked cigars, ashing them into a cracked teacup she kept on her desk. I still read and write poetry today, and it’s because of her.This is college to me: not so much where you go, but whom you meet once you get there.Michael TuckerBath, Me.The writer is the course materials specialist at Bowdoin College.To the Editor:I went to an “elite” college — one of the Seven Sisters — in the late 1950s when they were all single-sex schools. I confess to have attended only to prove to my parents, my friends and myself that I could “get in.” Although I made several lifelong friendships and, because of a captivating professor in the music department, developed a love for music that sustains me to this day, I was far too immature to benefit from the potentially excellent education that I neglected to take advantage of.Although I confess to having enjoyed the cachet evoked by my school’s name, I’ve often regretted that I didn’t attend a large coed school with football and basketball games (and parties) to attend — or wished that a “gap year” had been available so that I could have had a year to experience the real world before being immersed in an ivory tower that, perhaps at one year older, I would have appreciated more.Peggy SweeneySarasota, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasIt was a momentous vote for the United Methodist Church, as the future of the country’s second-largest Protestant church hung in the balance. In a former football stadium in St. Louis last month, church officials and lay leaders from around the world voted to strengthen their ban on same-sex marriage and gay clergy, a decision that could now split the church.But at least four ballots were cast by individuals who were not authorized to vote, according to interviews and a review of the church’s records. The individuals were from African delegations whose votes were critical to restricting the church’s rules on homosexuality.The final 54-vote margin against gay clergy and same-sex marriage exceeds the number of unauthorized votes discovered so far. But the voting irregularities raised questions about the process behind the divisive decision, which devastated progressive members. Some have discussed leaving the denomination and possibly creating a new alliance for gay-friendly churches.Church leaders are now discussing whether new votes should be called, Bishop Thomas J. Bickerton, who serves on the commission on the general conference, said in a phone interview.“The findings that have come out have caused a serious impact on issues of trust and integrity about the whole process,” he said.A query by The New York Times last week prompted church officials to hire a consulting firm to examine whether people who were ineligible may have received credentials to vote at the church’s general conference.Church leaders who oversaw the conference said in a statement that the audit showed it was “possible that a very limited number of ineligible persons” had participated. These people were denied credentials by staff at the conference, the officials said, but were later able to procure them.The Times found additional irregularities. For example, two delegates from South Congo, a church district in the Democratic Republic of Congo, are listed on the official attendance records. But they never traveled to the United States for the conference because of visa issues, according to a phone interview with one of the delegates and a message sent by the other to Rev. Kalaba Chali, an official translator for the conference, who did not support the decision to strengthen the ban on gay clergy. In addition, three people voted as delegates for South Congo but their names are absent from conference attendance logs and delegate election records.One unauthorized delegate was Philippe Kasap Kachez, whose father is Bishop Kasap Owan, a prominent opponent of gay clergy. Three Methodists from the Congo region identified Mr. Kasap Kachez to The Times as a voter seated on the floor. Mr. Chali spoke with him in St. Louis and asked why he was present.“He said he did not go to a Methodist church in Congo; instead he lives in Brussels,” Mr. Chali said in a phone interview. “He said, ‘I came here because my dad asked me to come vote against the lesbians.’”When contacted on Facebook and WhatsApp, Mr. Kasap Kachez declined to comment. Bishop Kasap Owan did not respond to questions.“To learn that there were irregularities in the voting is distressing and of great concern,” said Bishop Kenneth H. Carter, the president of the Council of Bishops, said in an interview on Thursday.When asked what these findings meant for the result of the vote of the general conference, the Rev. Gary W. Graves, secretary of the conference, said, “That is a matter that would still be under review.”The United Methodist Church has detailed strict rules for how to conduct important votes, such as the one last month on gay clergy.The church worldwide is divided into geographical units, called “annual conferences.” Each one elects delegates to the church’s global meetings, called “general conferences,” and it also elects “reserves” in case a delegate is not able to attend. The list of delegates and the reserves for each region is published at the start of the general conference.In the rare event that neither delegates nor reserves can attend, an annual conference can send a different individual, but only if that person was elected as an alternate for the process that elects bishops. Even then, those reserves would have to have followed the proper registration procedures to be allowed onto the floor.There are no exceptions to this rule, which is codified in the church’s Book of Discipline.Experts in Methodist governance say it would be highly unusual for a delegate to be allowed on the floor who was not listed publicly as a delegate or reserve at the start of the general conference.But there were examples of discrepancies between who voted and who was listed as eligible to vote.Germain Unda Mupasa said in a phone interview that he was a delegate for East Congo, where his father is Bishop Gabriel Yemba Unda. His name is on the attendance record, but not on the authorized list of delegates or reserves. Records on the United Methodist website show that he was not elected as a delegate or alternate when the church community in East Congo decided its delegation last year.“If my name was not on that list, it means my name was missed,” Mr. Mupasa said. “In Africa, we can have many reserves, because there are visa issues.”Hassa Satshishinga Suzanne Malandji was listed as an elected reserve delegate for Lukoshi, another church district in Africa, but she told The Times she was a delegate for South Congo. She said that she supported the vote outcome because “we have the responsibility to do what the Bible says.”Voting integrity matters not just for the outcome of the vote, but for the fair representation of all churches. Some delegations, like South Congo, had delegates who could not travel because of visa issues. But in several cases, to abide by the rules, delegations like North Katanga, also a church district in Congo, voted with fewer than their allotted delegates, according to attendance records.Church law does not allow proxy votes, and only elected reserves can replace absent delegates.The United Methodist legal structure does not have a clear procedure on how to investigate or adjudicate improper election activity. The relevant ethics committee does not have jurisdiction when the general conference is not in session.The system itself has not had to ask itself these types of questions, said Laceye Warner, a professor of Methodist studies at Duke Divinity School.“The polity of the United Methodist Church presumes trust,” she said. “The last several years, the ethos of the denomination has been characterized more by mistrust and misunderstanding.”Margaret Kramer and Jennifer Harlan contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementA year ago, Blueface was a little-known Los Angeles rapper, a former high school football star looking for new purpose, and new attention. Currently, and rather suddenly, he has become a rising hip-hop star with a single, “Thotiana,” that has been a viral sensation for the last few months and reached No. 9 on the Billboard Hot 100.“Thotiana” is an almost perfectly engineered hit of the social media age — it’s an effective song, and has also spawned several memes. Behind it all is Blueface, who despite his relative inexperience, understands how music functions in today’s economy, and has created a self-aware character that functions both as a musician and also as a piece of pliable internet content.On this week’s Popcast:Ben Dandridge-Lemco, a senior editor at The FaderAlphonse Pierre, a staff writer at PitchforkAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherOh, hi there. Welcome.We’re going to guess that you came here looking for information on the Super Bowl, the very important football game on Sunday. But did you type “Super Bowl?” Are you sure? Look again.Every year about this time, internet searches for “Super Bowl” go way up. But so do searches for “Superb Owl,” as fast-typing fans put the space in the wrong place.It has been noticed. This year, a search for “Super Bowl” on Google gets you the teams, time and location of the game. A search for “Superb Owl” gets you the same, plus a little cartoon of an owl.Reddit has a whole thread devoted to the superb owl, with pictures, videos and cartoons.Stephen Colbert made a joke of it a few years back, saying he would call the big game the Superb Owl to avoid angry letters from N.F.L. lawyers zealously guarding trademarks.Thursday night on “Jeopardy!” there was a Superb Owl category, with owl-related trivia. (Answer: The owl has traditionally been considered wise, as it was the bird of this Greek goddess. Question: Who is Athena?)So if you mistyped Super Bowl and wound up here, that’s great. We have tons of stuff about the game.Like a look at how Tom Brady became New England’s favorite adopted son.And an illustrated guide to the playoffs.And a prediction for the game.Hate the Patriots? Have a look at the Rams, though we admit it’s a little dated.But if you actually did want to know more about outstanding strigiformes (that’s owls), here’s a fascinating New York Times article about owls’ vision. It turns out they see the world much the way we do.Superb!AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonThe Giants on Tuesday allowed the three-time Pro Bowl safety Landon Collins to enter free agency rather than use an $11.15 million franchise tag that would have kept him a Giant.It was startling decision because Collins, 25, was one of the few stars on a porous defense that even the Giants’ brain trust blamed for a dispiriting 5-11 record last season.But more alarming is that Collins’s departure continues a discouraging trend in recent Giants history: the procession of top draft picks discarded by the team.Collins was a second-round selection in 2015. The Giants traded three picks (in the second, fourth and seventh rounds) to move up so they could take Collins with the first choice of the second round.Now Collins, in the early part of his prime, is unencumbered in free agency, where he will draw considerable interest. It’s a familiar fate for a Giants draft pick.In 10 drafts from 2008 to 2017, the Giants selected 70 players. Only seven are still with the team.The player the Giants chose in the first round ahead of Collins in 2015, tackle Ereck Flowers, was a colossal bust and was cut from the team early last season. In fact, no other player from the Giants 2015 draft class is still on the roster.That is hardly an aberration. The only player left from the 2014 draft class is Odell Beckham Jr. No player selected in 2013 is still with the team, and only two from 2016 are in a Giants uniform.The Giants’ approach to team building — if that’s even an appropriate term since they have had just one winning season since 2012 — has been highly unconventional as compared with their peers. In an era of salary cap restrictions, most N.F.L. teams have treated their draft selections like prized jewels to be coveted as they molded rosters with carefully chosen picks from the amateur draft.Collins certainly appeared to be the one selection of the Giants’ 2015 draft who would make the team proud for many seasons. After an uneven rookie season, a typical outcome for a first-year defensive back, Collins had five interceptions and 100 solo tackles in his second season, resulting in his being named to the All-Pro team.Collins’s production slumped slightly in the next season when he was not 100 percent because of injury. The same was true in 2018, but Collins still made the Pro Bowl in each of the last two seasons. He led the team in tackles in each of his four seasons.Collins also grew into a respected team leader who was a dependable, stand-up presence in an often fractious locker room that endured two coaching changes and consistent losing.It is true that Collins’s strengths as a player are as a run stopper, and last season his lack of downfield coverage skills were occasionally laid bare by opponents. Every year, the N.F.L. becomes more of a pass-first league, and it’s possible that the Giants will seem prescient for not investing heavily in a safety who might not be as valuable in a few years when teams are throwing the football 70 percent of the time — or more often.And then, of course, there is considerable salary that Collins would have commanded under the Giants’ franchise tag. More than $11 million is a lot for a safety. But the Giants could have negotiated a long-term contract with Collins to mitigate the annual cost.Meanwhile, it’s hard to forget that Eli Manning, who is 38 and has won eight games as the Giants’ starting quarterback in the last two seasons, will count $23.2 million against the Giants’ salary cap in 2019.The overarching strategy of Giants General Manager Dave Gettleman, who has been charged with fixing most of the draft choice blunders made by his predecessor, Jerry Reese, is not clear. Gettleman may be counting on the Giants receiving a high-round compensatory draft pick when Collins signs with another team. In addition, Gettleman may have feared that Collins, if designated with the franchise tag, would stay away from the team throughout training camp this summer, a negotiating tactic employed in recent years by other players seeking long-term deals. The Giants may not have wanted that distraction.What is known is that a poor Giants defense just got substantially worse. The Giants will now have more money to pursue free agents to resolve that expanding deficiency. And, bucking a trend, they had better draft wisely.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frank LitskyJohnny (Lam) Jones, a former Olympic gold medal sprinter and swift-footed football star at the University of Texas who never lived up to his promise as a football professional with the Jets, died on Friday. He was 60.His death was announced by the university, which said it came “after a lengthy battle with cancer.” Texas news organizations said he died in a hospital in Round Rock, Tex., north of Austin.Jones learned that he had multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, in 2005. Because he did not have health insurance, former Texas teammates raised money for his medical costs.Jones was phenomenon at his central Texas high school, in the city of Lampasas, running world-class times of 9.21 seconds for 100 yards and 10.14 for 100 meters.After graduating, he competed that summer in the 1976 Montreal Olympics, finishing sixth in the 100 meters and winning a gold medal running the second leg of the United States 4x100-meter relay team.He then enrolled at Texas, where his speed landed him on both the track and football teams. He would go on to become a record-setting All-American sprinter for the university.In his freshman year he ran in the same backfield as another Johnny Jones. To distinguish the two, Coach Darrell Royal gave one the nickname Lam, for Jones’s hometown, and the other the nickname Ham, because that Jones came from Hamlin, Tex.Lam Jones, at 5 feet 11 and 190 pounds, was a wide receiver in his last three years as a Longhorn, 1977-79, and an All-American in his senior year. He scored eight touchdowns of 45 yards or more at Texas and was chosen the team’s most valuable player in 1978.In the 1980 National Football League draft, the Jets traded two first-round picks to be able to move up and make Jones their first pick (and the draft’s second choice overall). He signed for $2.1 million over six years (the equivalent of $6.8 million today); it was pro football’s first million-dollar contract.But his pro career was an injury-ridden disappointment. In his first season in New York, he caught 25 passes but dropped 18. In his second season, his main job was to run in plays from the Jets’ offensive coordinator, Joe Walton, to the quarterback, Richard Todd. The New York Times sports columnist Dave Anderson called him “the Jets’ millionaire messenger.”There were a few highlights for Jones that season, however, including catching a 47-yard touchdown pass from Todd in a playoff-clinching 28-3 victory over the Green Bay Packers at Shea Stadium in New York. (The Jets, in the playoffs for the first time in 12 years, went on to lose to the Buffalo Bills in a wild-card game the next week.)In five seasons (1980-84) with the Jets, Jones suffered a broken collarbone, a pulled hamstring and a torn finger tendon. He spent 1985 and 1986 on the Jets’ injured reserve list. The next year, the Jets traded him to the San Francisco 49ers.“I know how they remember me in New York: I’m the guy they blew the draft pick on,” Jones told The Daily News in 2005. “That’s O.K. I didn’t live up to their expectations, but I didn’t live up to my own expectations, either.”He did worse in San Francisco: The 49ers promptly waived him in training camp. He then joined the Dallas Cowboys, who dropped him after he missed a morning meeting because, the team said, he had been drinking and had overslept.Indeed, he told The News that he had struggled with alcohol and cocaine addictions both during his playing days and afterward.As a pro, Jones caught 138 passes for 2,322 yards and 13 touchdowns. His best season was in 1983, with 43 catches, 734 yards and four touchdowns.“Games and challenges never scared Johnny,” Bill Little, an assistant athletic director at Texas, recalled on a Texas football website in 2004. “People did. Folks thought he was just extremely shy and sometimes rude. Years later, they would diagnose the condition he had as social anxiety disorder.”In 1988, his playing days over and living again in Texas, Jones served a month in jail after pleading guilty to indecency with a child, a 12-year-old girl. The episode was a turning point, he later said, compelling him to seek treatment for his addictions.“I needed to get my personal life in order,” he was quoted as saying. “I came back to live in the real world.”He sold cars and running tracks, made motivational speeches to high school athletes and was active with the Texas Special Olympics.In 1979, Jones donated his Olympic gold medal to the Special Olympics. Years later, he explained why: “I’d never seen anyone stop in a race and help someone who had fallen get up.”John Wesley Jones II was born on April 4, 1958, in Lawton, Okla., to John W. Jones and Mary Jones Dillon. His father was an Army sergeant who was later transferred to Texas.Lam Jones was married and divorced three times. There was no immediate information available about survivors.Jones was philosophical about the up-and-down course his life had taken. He was quoted by Bill Little on the Texas website: “I got to run in the Olympics, got a great education and played for the University of Texas and played for the New York Jets.”“I learned a lot,” he added, “and I had some tough lessons.”Frank Litsky, a longtime sportswriter for The Times, died in October. William McDonald contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham. Produced by Neena Pathak.What does it mean for Nike to align itself with Colin Kaepernick?Thursday, January 17th, 2019wesley morrisI am not an opera-goer. I do not go to the opera— not on purpose, not for any sort of like artistic dance. It’s just an art form that I experience maybe once a year. And last year, I got taken to the opera by one of our colleagues— Anthony Tommasini— who does the opera criticism for the New York Times. And there is a little bit of preamble— you know, sit around and talk and you sort of watch everybody in their gowns and dresses come in and you look at people’s very expensive tuxedos. And you’re very aware that you’re about to have this rarefied experience.jenna worthamSounds luxurious.wesley morrisAnd at some point before the opera starts, everybody gets up and the national anthem starts. And then everybody starts singing the national anthem.jenna worthamHow weird.wesley morrisNow, to be fair, it’s the beginning of the New York Metropolitan opera’s season. So we’re seeing the first show. And the season kicks off apparently with the singing of the national anthem.jenna worthamLike a baseball game.wesley morrisLike a baseball game. Exactamundo.jenna worthamI mean, that’s so weird, OK.wesley morrisBut I’m kind of like— I don’t want to get up. I don’t want to do this here. So I didn’t. I stayed seated.jenna worthamGood for you.wesley morrisAnd I didn’t expect to do that. Now I’m in this sunken place, how do I get out?jenna worthamIt’s Get Out 4.wesley morrisSo I just sat there. And the longer I sat, the angrier I got.jenna worthamOf course.wesley morrisI’m sitting there thinking about black people and how they weren’t at the opera. But then there was this additional aspect of it which is I was now performing my patriotism.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd I just didn’t want to participate in that performance surrounded by white people under those circumstances.jenna worthamHere’s what I’m wondering— did anybody else notice?wesley morrisI’m sure nobody noticed, but I felt very noticed. I went as the chief opera critic of the New York Times’ guest. And—jenna worthamOh, no.wesley morrisTo my left is Bret Stephens, the conservative columnist for this paper.jenna worthamAwkward.wesley morrisAnd I was trying to think what they were thinking in my not getting up. Like if they’d even noticed that I hadn’t. And I don’t know. I was like, are they going to think I’m like a Black Lives Matter person? And then I was like, well, I hope they do think I’m Black Lives Mattering right now.jenna worthamYes.wesley morrisAnd when I thought that, I was like, oh, I am staying seated. I’m not getting up.jenna worthamYou went full Rosa.wesley morrisNow I could never until that night have appreciated how long a non-Whitney Houston sung national anthem is.jenna worthamThat’s great. I mean, if Whitney had been singing it, you would’ve been standing.wesley morrisWell, yes, if Whitney had been singing it, my ass would have been up. But in remaining seated, I had a lot of time to think about why I didn’t stand up. Am I sitting as a form of actual political protest? Am I sitting as a form of meta protest? Is my protest a protest for protest’s sake, basically?jenna worthamRight. This is also just like only a Wesley monologue that’s like happening just for yourself in your head, but go on.wesley morrisFair. But then it led me to this other question— because I really felt like I was going to be asked to leave the Metropolitan Opera.jenna worthamThese days, the stakes are that high, though. That’s not a wild statement, you know what I mean? Like, this is the climate we’re living in. So what you’re basically telling me, Mr. Wesley Morris, is that you’re like the Colin Kaepernick of the opera. At least that’s how you felt in that moment.wesley morrisWow. OK. I would not say I was the Colin Kaepernick. But, listen, I did experience an affinity with him and I understood for the duration of that song some tiny part of what he and the other people who’ve carried on these protests of certain American values in his name feel yea when they sit during that song. It’s a long time when you feel like there is a risk to your remaining seated— or kneeling, as it were.jenna worthamNow I don’t watch sports. I don’t watch the ball foot. All I know about this man is he’s tall, he is fine, he’s biracial, he was adopted by white people, and he grew up in California. So I’mma a hand— I’m going to toss it to you.wesley morrisOK so Colin Kaepernick— he played for the University in Nevada and was drafted by the NFL in 2011. And didn’t really hit his stride as a starter until Alex Smith got injured on the San Francisco 49ers in 2012. And he became the starting quarterback. He had started basically no games and then became a star. He took the team to the Super Bowl in 2013.jenna worthamBig Willie style. He was a big deal.wesley morrisBig Willie style— you hear that, Colin Kaepernick?jenna worthamI had too much Diet Coke today, leave me alone.wesley morrisHe was a star. And it was one of those great sports stories where a person of whom little was expected and little was known winds up going to the Super Bowl. Now it’s also interesting to note that that Super Bowl in 2013 that was won by the Seattle Seahawks was the first to ever feature two black quarterbacks.jenna worthamIncredible.wesley morrisTwo biracial quarterbacks, by the way. But then— I don’t know— he got into a slump. The thing that was magical about him became somewhat ordinary and probably detrimental, which was his improvisation on the field.jenna worthamOK.wesley morrisSo at the start of 2016, Colin Kaepernick is basically fighting for his job. So at the same time that this man is competing to start for his football team, you have this really fraught national political environment.jenna worthamThat’s right.wesley morrisDonald Trump is running for president.jenna worthamAnd we’re in a moment too— let’s not forget in 2016— all of our feeds, all the newspapers, everything on television is reverberating with these two seemingly parallel, very close together, really horrific deaths at the hands of the police of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota.wesley morrisAnd those deaths come in the context of what seems like a constant flow of dead black people at the hands of the police.jenna worthamMany of whom— there are lots of questions about whether or not they’ll be charged. Most of them end up on paid leave. There is a feeling of unrest and injustice held by, I would say, probably every black person in the country at this moment in time.wesley morrisSo during this period, we get to August of 2016. The campaign is heating up. We know at this point that Donald Trump is the Republican nominee for president.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd that Hillary Clinton is the Democratic nominee for president. And football season is about to start. They have these preseason games that really only if you care about your team are you watching.jenna worthamOK. so it’s not like prime time yet.wesley morrisThey’re on TV.jenna worthamBut it’s like the diehard fans.wesley morrisRight. So it’s not like these preseason games are big news. They’re like a warm up. They let you know how your team is probably going to do.jenna worthamA scrimmage.wesley morrisI’ll accept that.jenna worthamThank you.wesley morrisSo during one of these preseason games, a woman named Jennifer Lee Chan notices that something is off. She basically covers the 49ers for the team. She’s the team beat writer. And she tweets that something is off about this formation of the team during the national anthem. And it’s a wide shot of the whole team. And if you get your magnifying glass out, you’ll notice that somebody with Colin Kaepernick’s number on the back is seated.jenna worthamChillin on the bench.wesley morrisAnd what she says is this is not a Jeff Fisher-approved formation— #hardknocks. She’s referring to Jeff Fisher— the coach of a different team— whose team was the subject of a documentary series called Hard Knocks.jenna worthamOK.wesley morrisAnd Jeff Fisher’s whole thing is— you’ve got to stand for the national anthem. You’ve got to be grateful for what you got, because the NFL is giving it to you, negros.jenna worthamNow this is where I started to pay attention. No one had really noticed until this point. Now the sitting starts getting national attention. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickI’ll continue to sit. I’m going to continue to stand with the people that are being oppressed. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamColin Kaepernick is asked about it directly in interviews. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingSpecifically, what would you like to see change in order for you to stand?colin kaepernickThere is a lot of things that need to change. One specifically is police brutality. There’s people being murdered unjustly and not being held accountable. Cops are getting paid leave for killing people. That’s not right. That’s not right by anyone’s standards. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamSo it’s around this point in time that a man named Nate Boyer, who’s a veteran, he’s a former Seahawks player as well writes an open letter in support of Kaepernick’s right to protest. He says, “even though my initial reaction to your protest was one of anger, I’m trying to listen to what you’re saying and why you’re doing it. I look forward to the day when you’re inspired to once again stand during our national anthem.” Kaepernick hit him up, they meet up, and Boyer suggests kneeling as a compromise because he sees it as a sign of respect. He says, because people need to pray and we kneel in front of fallen brothers grave. So Kaepernick agrees. He starts kneeling during the lineup during the national anthem rather than sitting on the benches during the anthem itself. And that’s when everything changes.wesley morrisSo other players start kneeling and the concept of taking a knee goes viral. So Norman Lear, the great television producer, television creator, All in the Family, Sanford and Son, Good Times. He takes a knee, posts a photo of him taking a knee. And then says, as a combat vet, I fought Nazis in World War II. Today, I #takeaknee once more in solidarity with my brothers and sisters still fighting for equality and justice.jenna worthamYou get Tracee Ellis Ross, the entire cast of Grey’s Anatomy— Gillian Anderson, David Duchovny on the set of new X Files reboot. I mean, a lot of people are paying attention. What’s interesting about this moment is both the national attention, but also the protesting is now tangentially about police brutality. It’s really about defending Kaepernick’s right to protest entirely, which is a much easier thing to get behind if you’re famous.wesley morrisRight, yes. It’s much easier to hashtag—jenna worthamTake a knee than #StopKillingBlackPeople.wesley morrisRight.jenna worthamRight?wesley morrisAmen.jenna worthamIt starts to get a little bit more amorphous, it gets a little bit wobbly on the sides, because then you have Noz deciding to launch a line of Christmas apparel in support of prison reform. I mean, by the way, Noz’s sweater campaign is called “Kneeling Santa.” So this thing is getting way out of control in the best way possible.wesley morrisWell, let’s go to the worst way possible. Because the president— the current president at the time in 2017— gets involved— Donald Trump. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]president trumpWouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say, get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out. He’s fired. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem or you shouldn’t be playing, you shouldn’t be there. Maybe you shouldn’t be in the country. You have to stand proudly for the nation. So I watched Colin Kaepernick and I heard he’s terrible. And then it got bigger and bigger and started mushrooming. And, frankly, the NFL should have suspended him for one game and he would have never done it again. They could have been suspended for two games. And they could have suspended him if he did it a third time for the season. And you would never have had a problem. But I will tell you— you cannot disrespect our country, our flag, our anthem. You cannot do that. [END PLAYBACK]wesley morrisHe basically understands that he’s able to do this in some ways because anybody who has any passionate feelings for the NFL has, as a just a matter of marketing corollary, feelings for the American military.jenna worthamIn what ways?wesley morrisThe Department of Defense has spent millions of dollars trying to get these teams to recruit people— not the players—jenna worthamFascinating.wesley morrisBut the spectators— either the people at home or the people that go.jenna worthamYou can’t play football, but you can join the military.wesley morrisRight. they spent millions of dollars, mostly in the NFL, for more prominently displayed flags during the games, for actual recruitment either in the stadiums themselves or through advertising on television during games. They would stage these strange— in the context of the games they were strange. You’d have these halftime reunion specials basically—jenna worthamI remember this, yes.wesley morrisBetween troops that are just home from battle and their families during a football game.jenna worthamSo interesting.wesley morrisSo the degree to which the sport is conflated with what the military stands for is almost inextricable at this point.jenna worthamSo, basically, football games have become a pipeline for recruitment.wesley morrisYes.jenna worthamAnd advertising for the US military. Which, Mr. Morris, answers your question. Why does it feel so weird to sit during the national anthem? Because you can be accused of not being a patriot, and that’s the rhetoric that gets reinforced by what Trump says about what these protests mean.wesley morrisAnd so compounding these stress, I would say, around Colin Kaepernick’s protests is also the fact that he is unemployed. You know, by 2015, he was in a slump, he wasn’t playing well. And by 2016, he is talking about wanting to play for another team. So, in addition to fighting for his current job, he also wanted to leave open the possibility of playing somewhere else. And these protests were not helping.jenna worthamClearly.wesley morrisNobody— he’s now a hot potato and nobody wants to be caught with him in their hands.jenna worthamNobody has an oven mitt heatproof enough to handle this hot potato.wesley morrisYes.jenna worthamSo he’s out of a job. But, as we know, there’s about to be another big tectonic shift in the epic saga that is Kaepernick’s life. And we’re going to take a break and we’re going to talk about it when we come back. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickIf people say your dreams are crazy, if they laugh at what you think you can do, good. Because calling a dream crazy is not an insult, it’s a compliment. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamIn the fall of 2018, this ad drops from Nike featuring Colin Kaepernick, along with a bunch of other very famous athletes— Serena Williams, LeBron James. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickBelieve in something, even if it means sacrificing everything. [END PLAYBACK]jenna worthamBut Colin is the star. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]colin kaepernickSo don’t ask if your dreams are crazy. Ask if they’re crazy enough. [END PLAYBACK]wesley morrisYes, I mean, he’s narrating the whole thing over kids falling off of skateboards.jenna worthamAnd ambitious surfers.wesley morrisAnd paralympic athletes. It is a celebration of a triumph over various adversities.jenna worthamCorrect.wesley morrisAnd the establishment of Colin Kaepernick’s relationship with Nike.jenna worthamYes. But now at this point, Colin Kaepernick has been transformed into a folk hero and also a lightning rod, which, in turn, attracted the attention of companies who know what to do with that imagery. Into the fray steps Nike— a multi-billion dollar company both to illuminate him and potentially exploit him.wesley morrisYeah, I mean, to endorse the message while also possibly diluting the message.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd, you know, this brings me back to the ad which, I have to say, is pretty mild given—jenna worthamIt needs some seasoning.wesley morrisIt needs some cayenne.jenna worthamThe holy trinity— it needs something.wesley morrisYes, it needs— some Lowry’s.jenna worthamLowry’s. No you did not.wesley morrisAnd I just feel like this was an opportunity for Nike to really step in to complete alignment with what it is Colin Kaepernick had initially been asking for with an ad that features things that we don’t want to see.jenna worthamThey actually could have believed in something even if it meant sacrificing everything.wesley morrisWell, I think you just put the nail on that one.jenna worthamOK, go on.wesley morrisBut the ad if it really— if the ad wanted to be crazy enough, would have just been a montage of the most horrible horribleness. Because—jenna worthamWow.wesley morrisBecause that’s what he is— that’s what the protest is.jenna worthamThat’s what he’s calling for to stop.wesley morrisThat’s what the kneeling was about. That’s what these other guys who are still in the league are kneeling for.jenna worthamRightwesley morrisThat’s what Black Lives Matter is protesting.jenna worthamThat’s what most black people in America want.wesley morrisYes.jenna worthamThe killing to stop.wesley morrisYes. And Nike has a long history of using causes and social activists as spokespeople to sell apparel. 1995 they had this ad featuring Rick Munoz who was an HIV-positive runner. And, of course, in ‘78, there was a Nike Liberator. I don’t know if it’s a shoe you ever wore, but the shoes were a thing. They’re still a thing. People wear them. You can pay a lot of money to get them on eBay now. So you had this history of this company being aware that there is a healthy relationship between its bottom line and the political objectives of certain social causes.jenna worthamRight. Nike sponsoring Colin is complicated. Because on one hand, it feels like this extraordinarily progressive thing. It feels very daring for Nike— like almost scandalous. Like, oh, my god, is Nike supporting Colin? Are they supporting Black Lives Matter protests? Are they are they coming out against police brutality? Actually, they’re not as far as we know. They’re simply saying, we support Colin Kaepernick as a political figure, as a social activist. But the campaign doesn’t really seem to have anything to do with his initial reasons for sitting down and then kneeling. And it’s also interesting, because a lot of people in my communities and in my circles and in my various feeds were applauding the Colin Kaepernick ads. They felt really seen by this corporate company, which I understand. I totally get it. And in some ways, I felt that way too. But I also feel very cynical about a giant, global company co-opting a social movement— which, essentially, they’re doing— that isn’t even about police brutality anymore. It’s just about the idea of what?wesley morrisOf Colin Kaepernick. We are so far from where we started in 2016. And this isn’t Colin Kaepernick’s fault. I think that the way things work now and the way he was attacked and ostracized by his employer, the industry in which his former employer worked— they basically have locked him out of getting a job. So the moral issues that you stand against when you stand with Colin Kaepernick include such things as police brutality and socioeconomic inequality, but also include getting this black man a job, standing up to President Trump, telling the racist in your town that he’s allowed to do whatever he wants as an American. If he wants to protest the national anthem, he should be able to. So it is not quite a grab bag, but there is a lot of things to protest when you stand with Colin Kaepernick. He’s become a symbol of so many things.jenna worthamAnd what does it mean when a company like Nike piggybacks on top of that symbol or they try to embody that symbol as a means to sell their products? Because, look, Nike’s stock went up 5%. That was a $6 billion— buh-buh-buh billion dollar increase in the company value after the campaign launched.wesley morrisWhat?jenna worthamAnd so you have to ask yourself a question— so who is benefiting more from this partnership, from this alliance? I feel like for me, all of my alarm bells start going off because I understand why the campaign excited a lot of people and why it felt really good to see Nike get behind Colin Kaepernick. But it also— I feel really skeptical because Nike is still under scrutiny for suspicious labor practices. There are all these anti-sweatshop protests happening against Nike because of their conduct in Vietnam where workers are claiming that they have to work really long hours and too hot conditions. I mean, the idea that somehow Nike is for whatever Colin Kaepernick’s for while still perpetuating some of the same types of oppressive practices— that even if he’s not directly speaking to, tangentially he is against the oppression of people of color— what does it mean to be parting with a company that might be participating in that at the same time?wesley morrisIt could be called Colin-washing.jenna worthamThat’s good.wesley morrisAnd to the degree that I am inclined to be cynical about this, it does involve the distance between what he meant to do in 2016 and what it means to stand up for black people, for oppressed people, for social inequality in a industrial land of plenty.jenna worthamWell, then you have at-home consumers who— whether or not they’re football fans or not— trying to figure out if burning Nikes is a protest or wearing Nike is a protest.wesley morrisYou have people actually destroying their Nike apparel to protest Nike.jenna worthamHashtag #justburnit. So you had people cutting off their swooshes, buying shoes and burning them— none of which damaged Nike’s bottom line whatsoever, we should say.wesley morrisBut I have to wonder— I have a reverse cynicism about this too. And it has everything to do with the shift of political power in this country over the last 20 years. Where what you and I want as constituents, as voters, as citizens matters increasingly less to the people who we put in office. In the last two years, you’ve had Congress people running from their constituents.jenna worthamYeah, like actually running from them.wesley morrisLiterally fleeing on foot, probably in a pair of Nikes, from their voters. So instead of governments— national, state, and local standing up for people, you now have these multinational corporations filling the void.jenna worthamThat said, though, I mean, is Nike protesting state policy if they’re just putting Colin Kaepernick’s face on a Billboard because my question is— and I’m still looking for the answer to this, but what does their balance sheet look like? Are they donating money to any of the causes that Colin cares about? Or does it count as a protest if these corporations are only shifting the needles in ways that benefit them as capitalist entities?wesley morrisWe are no longer individuals. We are constituents to these companies, because they own everything. They now are increasingly owning the government.jenna worthamRight, pretty much.wesley morrisYou can follow that money all the way to Washington because the corporate lobbies basically dictate policy. You know, we live in the United States of America, but we live also on Facebook. We live on Twitter. We live on Amazon.jenna worthamYeah, I mean, it’s interesting to think about even the president calling for his constituents that voted him into power to boycott Nike boosted the company’s returns.wesley morrisAlso, he did the same to the NFL, but the NFL went the opposite direction and made it really hard for those players to protest by basically putting their jobs on the line. So you do have this real tension where the only way to alter some of these policies is to find— when we’re talking about the president— is to find a mothra or a King Kong to go up against Donald Trump’s Godzilla.jenna worthamOf course.wesley morrisAnd Nike getting behind Colin Kaepernick— it is essentially giving him a platform that he would never have had as an unemployed football player.jenna worthamSo it’s beside the point whether or not Nike is behind the protest. The point is they’re imbuing, they’re amplifying, they’re putting halo around Colin that he, then, hopefully, in theory, then gets to— and I’m not saying whether or not this is good or bad. It’s just that this is sort of how it’s working that now he has this aura that he can spread around the causes that he cares about and hopefully affect some kind of change.wesley morrisYes, yes, yes. I mean, it’s, listen, I hate to say that it’s better than nothing, but it is kind of better than nothing.jenna worthamAnd, look, if your president is actively denouncing you, maybe it is strategic to align yourself with a giant like Nike who actually can take on the president. It becomes a question of multinationals versus nation-states. And maybe aligning with a problematic multinational is the lesser of two evils. It’s better than being out of a job and no one hearing what you have to say— although has Colin said anything lately?wesley morrisNo. That’s the other thing about this protest. It has become a silent protest. And that in and of itself is somewhat revolutionary. He doesn’t have to go on Wendy Williams to make his points. He doesn’t have to talk to Michael Strahan and Robin Roberts to make his points. We are simply wanting to know where the hell he is. And him popping up from time to time at the US Open, as one of GQ’s men of the year is in some ways satisfying enough. And he’s enough of an ambient presence to make the idea of standing against something and standing for something a real act in some ways— whether he talks about what he’s doing or not. He’s said his piece, what more could he say?jenna worthamColin Kaepernick, at least, has been pretty unwavering in his activism in a financial monetary way. He’s been donating a ton of money— over $1 million— to various charities since this whole thing began. So at least there is that.wesley morrisRight. And that in and of itself is a huge shift. Because he’s now in a position to do something that black celebrity activists had not previously been able to do.jenna worthamLike actually literally not been able to do because they were mostly broke, destitute, and shuffled out of this country.wesley morrisOr just chose to leave because it was too oppressive to stay. Josephine Baker and Paul Robeson basically wind up having— in fighting racism, wind up finding it more comfortable and safer to live abroad.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisAnd then you have two guys like Tommie Smith and John Carlos who, in raising their fists at the ‘68 Olympics in Mexico City, received international death threats.jenna worthamYeah.wesley morrisFor besmirching the Olympics with quote “politics” unquote, as though the Olympics weren’t in and of themselves an inherently political activity.jenna worthamIn this country, we have a long history of black people speaking up and losing everything. But now with the backing of Nike, you see Kaepernick more powerful than ever.wesley morrisYeah, I mean, he’s suing the NFL for collusion, basically, for keeping him out of the league. But I also think that he has awakened in the average person a sense of—jenna worthamSimilar agency, honestly, and similar validation or affirmation that they have a right to be angry too.wesley morrisOr not even angry, but just curious. Just curious. I’m thinking specifically about India Landry— a high school student who was expelled from her school when she refused to say the Pledge of Allegiance. And she sued the school last year. The suit is still ongoing— has not been resolved yet. But I do think that there is this sense that what harm comes of my not standing for the Pledge of Allegiance?jenna worthamWow.wesley morrisI don’t say that I’m not American, I just don’t know that I can pledge allegiance to a flag under which there are any number of things I have a problem with that my government either seems to perpetuate or neglect or ignore.jenna worthamRight. So, Wesley, what you’re illuminating for me is bigger than my initial cynicism about Nike— or it just puts it in a new perspective, which is Nike’s intentions are kind of irrelevant. Because what’s happened is something that can’t be put back in a box. So you’ve got India Landry feeling emboldened to exercise her right as an American to take a stand and to say, I’m not OK with this. I dissent. So I guess for me, I’m coming around to— I’m softening a little bit of my earlier critique and I’m raising this question. I don’t know that I want this to be what I define as progress at this moment in time, but this might be as good as it gets. And, more importantly, are we OK with it?wesley morrisJenna Wortham, you just asked me whether or not Nike’s sponsorship, co-opting, standing alongside in support of Colin Kaepernick— whether that is OK. And in as much as it has brought people to the brink of thinking about these issues that he’s protesting— or even what it means to align themselves or tolerate or think about some of the things that he is asking us to think about despite the sort of benign aspect of those advertisements— which, really, if they wanted to be— what’s the tagline? What’s the other tagline in that ad?jenna worthamI got to look it up. Hold on, hold on. At the very end of the ad, Colin Kaepernick shakes out his fro and says— and it gets exponentially bigger— it fills the screen. That doesn’t happen. But Colin Kaepernick says, “don’t ask if your dreams are crazy, ask if they’re crazy enough.”wesley morrisNow I think I’m pretty OK with Nike’s sponsorship of Colin Kaepernick. As we’ve discussed, complicated. Complicated.jenna worthamI hear you, but I don’t buy Nikes now and I’m not going to because Colin’s on the face those billboards. Now someone did buy me a pair of Nike’s because I have a bad back and I do wear them sometimes. But I will not give them money. And it doesn’t diminish my love of Colin Kaepernick and the support or the support for BLM. It doesn’t. It’s just complicated.wesley morrisComplicated, but I’m mostly on board with it because I understand the sort of political necessity of it.jenna worthamOK, go on.wesley morrisSo as I’m sitting there at that opera, it occurs to me as I’m standing here talking to you now— I was at the opera watching Samson and Delilah. Which, if you don’t know—jenna worthamI don’t know. It’s been a while since I’ve held a Bible, so please refresh my memory.wesley morrisIt is simply the basic story of a woman and a man who meet and fell in love. She is powerful, he is powerful. She learns that the secret to his strength is in his hair— his long hair. So she cuts his hair.jenna worthamI’m sorry. I just— OK, go on.wesley morrisNobody said the Bible was the gospel truth, it’s the gospel.jenna worthamWait, wait— so what you’re saying is in this narrative, it’s possible that Colin Kaepernick is the—wesley morrisSamson.jenna worthamAnd Nike’s the—wesley morrisDelilah.jenna worthamSo, Colin, don’t let Nike give you a relaxer— stay afro strong, right?wesley morrisYes. Colin, you’ve got to keep that afro.jenna worthamKeep them cornrows. Keep them in.wesley morrisI think that there is a degree to which the fame and the spokesperson would run the risk of collapsing or completely taking over the protest element of what he’s trying to do.jenna worthamRight. It’s a cautionary tale. And it’s a cautionary tale not just for Colin Kaepernick, but really anyone who is at the risk of co-option or at the risk of being wielded by a corporation for their own consumer benefit under the guise of political or social activism. I mean, look— the relationship between Nike and Colin Kaepernick goes beyond this particular moment. Corporations are interested in capitalizing on black cool. They always have been and they’re willing to do it in any way that makes sense. And it’s happening on a scale as large as Nike to as small as influencers on Instagram. What Colin does sets a template for what other highly visible famous or slightly famous black people decide to do when companies reach out to them and want to promote them because of their alignment with social movement and social activism. It’s just a much bigger deal than just this moment in time. So maybe the question that we’re asking should be different. It’s not whether or not we’re OK with Nike’s sponsorship of Colin Kaepernick, it’s whether or not Colin Kaepernick can survive and whether or not the movement that Colin Kaepernick started can survive the sponsorship of Nike— because it has to. It actually has to.wesley morrisIt has to. Still Processing is a product of the New York Times.jenna worthamIt is produced by Nina Pathak.wesley morrisOur editors are Sasha Weiss and Larissa Anderson.jenna worthamWe have editorial oversight from Lisa Tobin and Samantha Henig.wesley morrisAnd our engineer is Jake Gorski.jenna worthamOur theme music is by Kindness. It’s called “World Restart” from the album, “Otherness.”wesley morrisAnd you can find all our other episodes at nytimes.com/stillprocessing.jenna worthamAnd, as always, if you’re so inclined, feel free to leave us a review at Apple podcasts.wesley morrisThanks for listening, everybody.jenna worthamBye.By Wesley Morris and Jenna WorthamLast fall, Nike released a groundbreaking ad featuring the former N.F.L. quarterback Colin Kaepernick. His kneeling protest, which started in 2016 as a response to police brutality, was reinterpreted by social media, celebrities and Nike itself to mean something that doesn’t always match the intention of his original protest. So what does it say that a multinational corporation has aligned itself with a social movement? And are we O.K. with this form of “Kaepitalism”?Discussed this week:“Samson et Dalila” at the Metropolitan OperaJennifer Lee Chan’s tweet showing Colin Kaepernick not standing for the national anthem (Aug. 27, 2016)Colin Kaepernick explaining why he won’t stand for the national anthem (Aug. 28, 2016)“Colin Kaepernick and the Question of Who Gets to Be Called a ‘Patriot’” (Wesley Morris, The New York Times Magazine, Sept. 12, 2016)Nike’s ad featuring Colin Kaepernick (September 2018)“Nike’s Colin Kaepernick ad sparked a boycott — and earned $6 billion for Nike” (Alex Abad-Santos, Vox, Sept. 24, 2018)“This Could Be the Next Step for the New, Socially Conscious Nike” (Sarah Spellings, The Cut, Sept. 6, 2018)“Nike Is Facing a New Wave of Anti-Sweatshop Protests” (Marc Bain, Quartz, Aug. 1, 2017)Wesley Morris is the critic at large for The New York Times and a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine. Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for the magazine.“Still Processing” is produced by Neena Pathak and edited by Larissa Anderson and Sasha Weiss, with editorial oversight from Lisa Tobin and Samantha Henig. Our theme music is by Kindness. It’s called “World Restart,” from the album “Otherness.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe underdoggery and romance of my childhood are out. Dynastic rule and the creation of a great new American institution are in.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistI became a besotted baseball fan at the age of 6, watching the Boston Red Sox, my mother’s ancestral team, march to the World Series against the New York Mets. My parents woke me up near midnight on Oct. 25, 1986, to come downstairs with them and “watch the Red Sox win” — an eventuality that was, at that moment, just a single out away. It remained one out away through three singles, a devastating wild pitch and an incident that shall not be described involving one William Joseph Buckner. I wept, slept and awoke a gloomy pessimist, forever haunted by the fall of man.I became a football fan around the same time, and I figured I should root for the Patriots as well, in New England solidarity. They had recently played (albeit embarrassingly badly) in a Super Bowl, so I was unaware of their long, distinguished legacy of lousy play. But by the time I turned 10 and they were working their way through a 1-15 season, with a 2-14 encore just around the corner, I understood a little better the implications of my choice.This combination of Red Sox tragedy and Patriot futility defined my relationship to professional sports until adulthood, at which point (as you may have heard) absolutely everything changed for both teams and they became insufferably dominant. And my fandom, forged in suffering and melodrama and “wait ’till next year” rue, never quite recovered from my favorite teams’ success.Everyone leaves certain childish things behind, of course. But there is no greater chasm in the remembered continuity of the self than the gulf separating me from the version of myself whose mind was at least 35 percent baseball from February until October and 20 percent football for the rest of the year, who screamed and raved my way through crucial games and crucial months, and who once talked a boss into letting me off work early because of the psychic damage inflicted by Aaron Boone’s Sox-crushing, American League Championship Series-winning home run the prior night.I remember that person, but I can’t remember how he felt. And trying to raise my children to be New England sports fans in an age of constant New England winning has given me real sympathy with the lukewarmly religious, the Christmas-and-Easter sort of believer who wants to impart some measure of piety to their children without really experiencing the flame of faith themselves.There are reasons besides Bostonian sports success for the dying of that flame. My current editors probably wouldn’t let me out of column writing after a devastating loss, and normal adult obligations leave less time for rereading Roger Angell’s season-recapping baseball essays for the 847th time.But the frequent triumphs of the Sox and Pats have been crucial to my loss of ardor. In the old days I was always mystified about how Yankee fans stirred up the same excitement year after year despite their constant winning, and as my teams became increasingly Yankee-like the mystification remained. Indeed, I missed the thirst enough to seek the feeling elsewhere — adopting long-suffering franchises temporarily (until the Kansas City Royals ruined our affair by winning the World Series) to remind myself of what it was like to nourish long-unrequited hopes.Despite that infidelity, though, I’ve never taken the step of actually rooting against one of my childhood teams. Which has kept me connected to both of them, however dutifully.And now that the Patriots have ground their way, in a terrible-to-watch game highlighted by punts, to yet another Super Bowl victory, I want to report a change in my sports psychology. In my dutiful connection to the latest run of Patriot Super Bowl appearances, I have begun to feel something different, strange and unfamiliar — not a recovery of the old romance, but a growing appreciation of pure, ruthless effectiveness, an admiration for iron efficiency, a joy at the dismantling of highly touted rivals, a feeling that almost … almost … makes me begin to have a trace of a scintilla of understanding for what it feels like to be a Yankees fan.I say this as someone who feels no particularly personal sympathy or affection for the two men, Bill Belichick and Tom Brady, who have delivered the Patriots their extraordinary dynasty. Belichick is an unpleasant perfectionist whose cultivated public misanthropy and “look at me, a slob” outfits often seem like an irritating sort of performance art. Brady preferred the supermodel charms of Gisele Bündchen to Bridget Moynahan, the nice Catholic ex-girlfriend (I saw them at Mass together once, so I'm totally in her camp) who was carrying his child — and then succumbed, via Gisele, to a pro-athlete equivalent of the Gwyneth Paltrow-Goop worldview.And without delving into the arcana of Deflategate, it’s obvious that the Patriots’ search for a competitive edge has taken them to at least the edge of, you know, cheating.So the old fake-personal bond that I felt for my flawed New England heroes — Yaz! Nomah! Bledsoe! — isn’t there with Brady and Belichick today. What is there, and increasingly as their dynasty has become more improbably extended, is something very different: a zest for on-field excellence simply for its own sake, a forgiveness of personal and even moral deficiencies because the record speaks for itself, a setting aside of feel-good narratives and romantic underdog stories because the sheer force of winning trumps them all.Oh, did someone say Trump? Yes, it’s appropriate that the Patriots are Donald Trump’s favorite team, but not because they have too many white players or because their consistent, grinding, rigorous success somehow resembles his improbable and often ridiculous ascent. Rather it’s because the Patriots are the actual thing that his grifter’s instincts and “Great Again” sloganeering are constantly trying to evoke — a dependably, reliably excellent American institution, of the kind that people in the pre-Vietnam era took for granted, and that our own era struggles to reproduce.The Patriots are to football what the Apollo and Manhattan Projects were to military-industrial-complex science, what IBM and General Motors were to big business, what the Hoover Dam and Mount Rushmore were to public works — with Belichick as their Patton-meets-Eisenhower impresario, by turns a jerk and a bore but a winner above all. They are a throwback, a constant rebuke to the decadence visible in every other American institution (their First Fan’s White House very much included), a last bloom of the can-do genius that won us World War II …… sorry, getting a little carried away here. The point is that unlike my beloved Red Sox, who now win just often enough to make me feel some Catholic-with-Calvinist-ancestors guilt over their success, the Patriots have over the last few years passed into new territory, a new sphere of fan experience. For the first time since I was in college and they were scrappy underdogs, their every victory makes me want them to win more — to boldly go, like Neil Armstrong and James T. Kirk, where no team has gone before …… sorry, carried away again. The point, the point, is that I am a changed fan, or at least a changing one. With every Patriot victory, I am winning the victory over myself. I am shedding old habits, jettisoning the underdoggery and romance of my childhood, learning to love dynastic rule.The Super Bowl is over. But next season is coming. Brady isn’t retiring. Belichick is going back to his tapes and plots and schemes. Six Super Bowl rings? That’s nothing.How did Patton put it? Americans love a winner and can’t tolerate a loser. Americans play to win all the time …Let’s make it seven.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA football fan reflects on a year without Tom Brady.By Alex KingsburyMr. Kingsbury is a member of the editorial board.I’m pleased that the New England Patriots made it to the A.F.C. championship game again this year. On Sunday, they’ll play the Kansas City Chiefs at 6:40 p.m., and the winner will advance to the Super Bowl.I’ve been a Patriots fan my entire life, long before they were good enough to loathe. But I won’t be watching football this weekend. I haven’t watched a single pass or tackle all season.I don’t remember much about last year’s A.F.C. championship game between the Patriots and the Jacksonville Jaguars. But I’ll never forget the sound.The Pats were down 14-3 with 1:23 left in the second quarter when the tight end Rob Gronkowski tried to catch a long, lofted pass from the quarterback, Tom Brady. He almost had it. But the Jags’ safety, Barry Church, hit Mr. Gronkowski just as he was pulling it down.Their hard plastic helmets hit each other with such force that — even through the tinny speakers on my television — it sounded like a rifle shot. You can see and hear the collision here.It still echoes in my ears. As the sound of the hit faded into a commercial break, I realized with absolute certainty that I couldn’t watch football anymore. There aren’t enough yards to gain or Super Bowl rings to win that are worth the cost.To use a euphemism from the era before we knew about brain damage, Mr. Gronkowski “got his bell rung.” Shaken by the impact, he struggled to his feet, wobbled and was helped off the field with a concussion. Mr. Church was fined $24,309 by the N.F.L. for an illegal hit.“I hope he’s all right,” Mr. Church said after the game. “If you go low for the knees, you are considered a dirty player, and if you go high, they throw the flag at you. It’s a bang-bang play, and I was just trying to play football.”“It’s football,” Mr. Gronkowski later told the press. “It is what it is.”And that’s the problem.The first research into the link between football and traumatic brain injury was published in 2005. Since then, the science has become impossible to ignore. In 2017, The Journal of the American Medical Association published the results of the autopsies of the brains of 111 deceased former N.F.L. players, whose relatives gave their bodies up for study. The group was not a random sample, yet 110 showed signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., a degenerative brain disease linked to concussions. Research published in November estimated that a minimum of 10 percent of all professional football players would develop C.T.E. at some point in their lives. Professional athletes are well compensated for their dangerous job. But the pipeline is a problem. It can take more than a decade of hard hits to make it to a college team or the pros.Research published in The Journal of Pediatrics last month found that concussion rates for youth football players were higher than previously reported. In all, some 5 percent of all youth football players receive concussions each year, a figure that may sound low, but compounds with each additional year of play. In 2017, a study found that playing football before age 12 doubled the risk of problems with behavioral regulation, apathy and executive functioning. It tripled the risk of elevated depression.It’s little wonder that lawmakers last year in New York, Illinois, California, Maryland and New Jersey introduced bills to ban or restrict youth tackle football.All this isn’t the snowflaking of the next generation of American men. It’s physics. Technology — in the form of, say, better helmets — will not save the game. Researchers note that helmets don’t prevent all concussions and might be making the problem worse, by giving players a false sense of invincibility.The dangers of the game are clear to the insurance companies that cover youth and professional leagues. An investigation published by ESPN’s “Outside the Lines” this week found that the insurance market for youth football is “fundamentally altering the economics of the sport, squeezing and even killing off programs faced with higher costs and a scarcity of available coverage.”“People say football will never go away, but if we can't get insurance, it will,” Jon Butler, the executive director of the youth football program Pop Warner, is reported to have said. The report said that the N.F.L. is also having problems finding companies willing to insure against head injuries.With no safe way to play — short of flag football — it’s little wonder that participation in youth football is on the decline. Some high schools have dropped the sport altogether, while state legislatures are passing and updating concussion laws to ensure schools that do field teams take the issue seriously. Every state now has a concussion law on the books.Nor is it surprising that some younger N.F.L. players are calling it quits. Mr. Gronkowski, now 29, reportedly considered retirement after last season. Reports say he’s considering doing so after this one, too.There are still Newton deniers, who contest his laws of physics, which explain how the human brain slams into the interior walls of the skull during a concussion.“Your body gets used to the hits,” the Patriots’ Tom Brady told a sports radio show last month. “The brain understands the position that you are putting your body into, and my brain is wired for contact. I would say in some ways it has become callous to some of the hits.”Mr. Brady’s former teammate, Ted Johnson, spent 10 years in the N.F.L. and told The Times in 2007, at age 34, that he was suffering from symptoms characteristic of early Alzheimer’s disease as a results of concussions. “There's something wrong with my brain,” he said.Mr. Johnson called Mr. Brady’s recent remarks about concussions “irresponsible.” “I’ll be honest, and I love Tom, it made me throw up in my mouth a little bit,” he said.Despite all these concerns, there’s little indication that football will be dethroned as America’s favorite sport. Television ratings, which have taken some hard hits of their own over the past few years, have rebounded this season. And the Super Bowl might be the most communal experience the country has in 2019.This Sunday, I won’t begrudge my father, who’ll watch the game delayed on DVR, so he doesn’t have to endure commercials to get to the 11 minutes of action. Nor my cousin, who’ll bet money on the game. Seeing the occasional Patriots hat or jersey on the street is a nice reminder of the tribe I’ve parted ways with. Because as long as I can hear the sound of Gronk getting his bell rung, I’ll find something else to watch. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Cindy ShmerlerMIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Stephen M. Ross swears he is not embroiled in a third-set tiebreaker with Larry Ellison, the billionaire co-founder of Oracle who bought the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., a decade ago and transformed it into a tony desert party for tennis players and fans.Still, when the moved and improved Miami Open begins this week at Hard Rock Stadium, home of Ross’s Miami Dolphins, it will not be hard to imagine Ross, a billionaire real estate developer, keeping a tiny scorecard in his back pocket.“Larry’s done a great job,” Ross said. “He set the bar high, and it’s all great for tennis. But for us, it’s more natural not to compete, or at least to do so in our own way.”Ross, who bought the Dolphins in 2008 and spent $550 million renovating the stadium, stepped in when IMG, which owns the Miami Open, found itself at an impasse with a Key Biscayne resident who controlled the land where the tournament had been played since 1987.That man, Bruce Matheson, refused to allow $50 million worth of renovations to the Crandon Park site, and his prolonged lawsuits convinced the tournament that it was time to go.Rather than see the tournament — and its hundreds of millions in local revenue — uprooted from South Florida to Orlando or China, Ross decided to partner with IMG and move the tournament about 20 miles northwest to his football stadium. He spent an additional $72 million to transform it into a state-of-the-art tennis venue.The move wasn’t well received by everyone.“Key Biscayne had a very intimate setting, and you can’t beat the drive over the Rickenbacker Causeway, with blue water on both sides of you,” said John Isner, the defending Miami Open champion. “We had a lot of history in that place, and that stadium court will always be very special to me.”At the new site, a temporary main court was erected on the football field, with half of the seats were blocked off by screens. A 5,191-seat grandstand court, two other show courts and eight additional match courts — all permanent — were built on top of parking lots.On a recent tour, those lots were indiscernible behind purple flowers, artificial grass, 35-foot mature palm trees costing $35,000 a pop, and a giant fountain that guards one of the many entrances to the stadium. There is also a 40-by-90-foot video screen, the largest in tennis, just outside the stadium in a spot modeled after Wimbledon’s Henman Hill, minus the grass.The change recalls the United States Open’s move from the charming but outgrown West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills in 1978 to the more functional, if less romantic, U.S.T.A. Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in nearby Flushing Meadows. It took a while to get used to the new digs, but no one would ever want to go back to the old ones.“This place has a much larger footprint, so we can do more things,” said Tom Garfinkel, the Dolphins’ chief executive. “We are giving people an unprecedented luxury experience in tennis, just like the N.F.L.”Tournament organizers did not take the word “luxury” lightly. The stadium court — painted in colors called Oasis Blue and Biscayne Blue — seats 13,800, the same as the main court in Key Biscayne. But this court features 4,738 premium seats, many that resemble Barcaloungers, with individual television screens. These seats range in price from $50,000 to $70,000 for the two-week tournament. Some are right on the court.Premium-seat packages, most of which were sold out two months before the start of the tournament, include private dining rooms. Some suites have seats made out of Ferrari leather. For a privileged 1,000 visitors, there is a dedicated entrance from a private parking lot, in which spectators pass through a tent lined with art, including works by Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol that can be purchased for upward of $1 million.Ticket prices at every level have increased by up to 40 percent over last year, though several thousand grounds passes are available for as little as $15 each day. Sales by the end of last month were up 25 percent, thanks, in part, to Dolphins season-ticket holders who have been cajoled into watching tennis.“There’s a bit of a challenge in giving people the confidence that this really is for the best,” said James Blake, the tournament director.Ross helped choose everything on the site: the flowers, the gigantic paintings that line the stadium corridors, the tiles on the bathroom walls.“I had a picture in my head of what I wanted this to look like, the same way I do my real estate deals,” said Ross, who is also behind Manhattan’s Hudson Yards project. “It’s all in the details. Little things matter. People notice, and they’re watching for those details.”The number of practice courts, many with spectator seating, have doubled from those at Key Biscayne, to 18. But unlike in Key Biscayne, those courts will not be turned over for the public to play on after the tournament ends.The players, at least, should be happy. Their amenities have been enhanced, with dining areas and gym spaces tripling in size. The top eight seeds in the men’s and women’s singles draws, as well as all former champions, will be given private suites to be used by their entourages.But organizers see the event as more than a tennis tournament. The grounds will open at least two hours before play begins each day to encourage people to come early to eat, shop and listen to concerts by local musicians.“What we wanted was a venue that would allow us the freedom and flexibility to grow and innovate the event,” said Mark Shapiro, president of Endeavor, IMG’s parent company. “Key Biscayne was lovely, but we simply outgrew it. What we’ve got now is going to be supernatural, like walking through a Lollapalooza, and a tennis tournament grew out of it. Forget becoming the fifth major, we’re the new U.S. Open.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirAlbert J. Dunlap, a tough-talking executive whose ardor for turning around troubled companies by laying off workers and closing factories earned him the nickname Chainsaw Al, but whose career ended in an accounting scandal, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 81.The cause was prostate cancer, said Eric Carr, a friend and executive with the fund-raising arm of Florida State University athletics, to which Mr. Dunlap pledged more than $40 million.Mr. Dunlap portrayed himself as a foe of corporate waste and a servant of the shareholders who benefited from his actions. In the 1990s, when he ran Scott Paper, he laid off 11,200 workers; it was just one measure he took that brought him financial rewards of $100 million in salary, stock profits and other compensation after engineering the company’s sale to Kimberly-Clark in 1995.“Sure, people had to get fired, but as time goes by that company will grow and prosper and new jobs will be created,” he told The South Florida Sun-Sentinel soon after.Mr. Dunlap was soon hired by Sunbeam Corporation, an appliance maker, and within a month anticipation on Wall Street about Mr. Dunlap’s plans to overhaul the company sent its shares soaring by 73 percent. He did not disappoint the traders: He promptly announced that he would halve Sunbeam’s work force of 12,000 people; close or sell most of its plants and other facilities; and pare its number of product lines.“I’ve done this enough times to recognize the death gurgle of a corporation,” he told  the reporter Hedrick Smith for “Surviving the Bottom Line,” a PBS documentary series. “And this corporation had the death gurgle.”Unlike other corporate executives who laid off even more employees, the preternaturally confident Mr. Dunlap unapologetically boasted that the brutal efficiency of his methods was critical to saving the jobs that were not axed. In 1996, for example, he stepped forward when dozens of other executives refused to speak to Newsweek for a cover article, titled “Corporate Killers,” about downsizing.“We’re painted as villains but we’re not,” Mr. Dunlap said. “We’re more like doctors. We know it’s painful to operate, but it’s the only way to keep the patient from dying.”He said he was an advocate of corporate governance reforms, like paying directors in stock instead of cash, to better align their interests with those of shareholders, and limiting directors to single five-year terms.Mr. Dunlap played to the image of a bull in a corporate china shop, accepting nicknames like “Rambo in Pinstripes” and “The Shredder.” He preached his motto — “You’re not in business to be liked. If you want a friend, get a dog” — and wrote an autobiography with the title “Mean Business: How I Saved Bad Companies and Make Good Companies Great” (1996, with Bob Andelman).“The Al Dunlaps of the world would not be hired if corporate people did their jobs,” he wrote. “But because some executives can’t make decisions or consistently make the wrong decisions, their incompetence virtually screams out for an Al Dunlap.”His critics included Robert B. Reich, the secretary of labor in 1996, when Mr. Dunlap announced that he was laying off half of Sunbeam’s workers.“There is no excuse for treating employees as if they are disposable pieces of equipment,” Mr. Reich said in an interview with The New York Times that year.A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018Albert John Dunlap was born on July 26, 1937, in Hoboken, N.J. Differing family accounts say his father was either a dockworker or a boilermaker and his mother either a store clerk or a homemaker. Albert played football in high school in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., and boxed as a cadet at the United States Military Academy.After graduation, he trained as a paratrooper at Fort Benning, Ga., then served as an officer at a nuclear missile facility in Maryland.He began his business career in Kimberly Clark’s management training program, working on “the third shift at a dirty, smelly paper mill,” he wrote in his book. After four years there, and rising to project leader, he was hired by Sterling Pulp & Paper as general superintendent and started turning its faltering operations around.A decade later he joined American Can in its strategic planning group, then moved to jobs at Lily-Tulip Cup, a large paper cup manufacturer; Crown Zellerbach, a timber and pulp corporation; and Consolidated Press Holdings, a media and publishing company in Australia.He was named chairman and chief executive of Scott in 1994, taking on a company burdened by high debt and depressed earnings. Within two years he had arranged its sale to Kimberly-Clark for $6.8 billion and left to take over Sunbeam.But in June 1998, Mr. Dunlap’s corporate career came to a quick end.Sunbeam’s board fired him in the wake of several quarterly earnings disappointments and regulatory filings that showed that Sunbeam had essentially applied 1998 payments — from retailers buying barbecue grills — to the previous year’s books, creating a false picture of a surge in 1997 sales.Shareholders soon filed suit against Mr. Dunlap and the company. With a crushing debt load, Sunbeam filed for bankruptcy in 2001.The news continued to get worse for Mr. Dunlap, even in the years after he left Sunbeam.In 2002, he and other Sunbeam executives paid $15 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit that accused them of using inflated stock prices to complete the company’s purchases of Coleman, a manufacturer of camping and leisure products, and First Alert, a maker of smoke alarms.Later that year, Mr. Dunlap settled a civil suit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission that accused him of several counts of accounting fraud that misrepresented Sunbeam’s financial results. He paid a $500,000 fine and agreed to be barred from ever again serving as an officer or director of a company. He neither admitted nor denied the allegations.In a second edition of his autobiography, published in 2014, Mr. Dunlap deleted nearly everything he had written about Sunbeam.Survivors include his wife, Judy Stringer, but complete information about survivors was not immediately available.In recent years Mr. Dunlap was a prominent supporter of Florida State, where he gave $5 million to build a Student Success Center on its Tallahassee campus, and announced a gift of $20 million last October to help build a football facility, which bears his name. A statue of Mr. Dunlap stands outside it.For all his generosity to Florida State, however, Mr. Dunlap’s reputation rests more on his being an unbridled cost-cutter whose actions enriched shareholders and himself.“I’m a superstar in my field, much like Michael Jordan in basketball and Bruce Springsteen in rock ‘n’ roll,” he wrote in his autobiography. “My pay should be compared to superstars in other fields, not to the average C.E.O.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill Cowan(If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s  the sign-up.)Good Monday morning.Over the weekend, you may have missed the news that even after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families at the border, more than 200 children were taken from parents and other relatives, and that the state’s taxpayers will shoulder $1.8 million in legal costs from sexual harassment investigations in the California Legislature over the course of last year and January.But there will be plenty of time this week to think about weighty issues affecting our state. Instead, we thought it’d be nice to ease back with a visual walk-through of wildflowers.Recently, I wrote about how fires followed by heavy rains were likely to spur super blooms across Southern California this year, and how you can see some wildflowers for yourself.Casey Schreiner, the founder and editor of the website Modern Hiker, told me that the best way to see a peak wildflower bloom is to do your research and be flexible.For some of you, though, it might be tough to drop everything to go camping. And motels near parks may already be booked up.So last week, I visited Anza-Borrego Desert State Park with John Francis Peters, a San Diego-based photographer, in an effort to bring you the next best thing.After a stop at the Anza-Borrego Desert Natural History Association’s storefront in tiny Borrego Springs, where we got some advice about where to find the best blooms, we headed out to a short trail near the end of Di Giorgio Road.And while I’ve been on some great hikes before, I’d never experienced anything quite like it.Not only did the colors of the purple sand verbena, golden desert sunflowers and brown-eyed evening primrose roll down from the mountains like a stunning carpet, the air was also lush and fragrant.Over the course of the day, we came across hikers from Sweden and Canada.We also met Anjelica and Megan Sloan, who live in Seattle, as they headed back to the road with their almost-2-year-old daughter, Sawyer.Megan said she hadn’t seen a wildflower bloom since she was a kid.“We’ll see if she remembers,” she added with a smile, gesturing toward Sawyer, who was planted on the trail, examining the sand.Anjelica Sloan said that they hiked frequently in Washington, but that the desert was something else.“The contrast between the mountains and the shadows and the flowers is just remarkable,” she said.Cindy English, who brought her dog, Wilma, from San Diego, said she’d been heading to the desert to see wildflowers for decades. This year’s explosion, she said, has brought the “most diversity of flowers” that she’s seen.Are you persuaded to pack your bags? If you can get there before hordes of sphinx moth caterpillars eat the blossoms, the Theodore Payne Foundation’s weekly wildflower report can help you figure out where to go.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• House Democrats spent the week fighting about how much and when to police the speech of their colleagues. [The New York Times]• In the Senate, Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris are a study in contrasts. “Do you advance your politics in today’s day and age by being the most compelling and forceful, or do you do it by being the best able to find compromise solutions?” [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A U.S.C. music student, Victor McElhaney, was shot and killed in an apparent robbery off campus. He was a jazz studies major, the son of an Oakland councilwoman and an active member of the university’s Center for Black Cultural and Student Affairs. [The Los Angeles Times]• “I didn’t think he’d get his death sentence here.” A doctor on a video screen told a patient at a Fremont Kaiser Permanente hospital that he was near death. It left his relatives aghast and resurrected thorny debates about the pitfalls of telemedicine. [The New York Times]• Newspapers are contracting or closing at an alarming rate, leaving behind communities — like Fresno, where the paper has suffered cuts — whose government officials are more likely to spend wastefully, research shows. [The Associated Press]• A federal judge in Oakland paved the way for college football and basketball players to receive more compensation than they do now. But the ruling didn’t go as far as some proponents had hoped. [The New York Times]• Paris has the Eiffel Tower; St. Louis has the Gateway Arch. Now, San Jose — a.k.a. Silicon Valley — wants a monument to, well, Silicon Valley. [The New York Times]•  Salesforce’s 20th anniversary was Friday. Here’s a timeline showing how it went from zero to $13 billion, from a Telegraph Hill apartment to San Francisco’s tallest building. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A viral illness knocked Serena Williams out of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells. [The New York Times]• In her new film, “Gloria Bell,” set in a hazily lit L.A., Julianne Moore takes on a radical role: An ordinary, flawed 50-something woman navigating life. [The New York Times]California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq Panja and Kevin DraperNevada law enforcement officials investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo have requested a sample of the player’s DNA from the Italian authorities, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department confirmed Thursday evening.Mr. Ronaldo, a Portuguese wing and five-time world player of the year, plays in Italy for the powerhouse club Juventus.“The LVMPD is taking the same steps in this case as in any other sexual assault to facilitate the collection of DNA evidence,” Laura Meltzer, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police, said in a statement. The department declined to give any additional information about the investigation.Investigators are seeking the DNA sample as part of a recently reopened investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Mr. Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.“Mr. Ronaldo has always maintained, as he does today, that what occurred in Las Vegas in 2009 was consensual in nature, so it is not surprising that DNA would be present, nor that the police would make this very standard request as part of their investigation,” one of Ronaldo’s lawyers, Peter S. Christiansen, said in a statement Thursday.Juventus declined to comment.Mr. Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it first emerged in October; Mr. Ronaldo labeled them “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations.The magazine, Der Spiegel, said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment to settle it, from the shadowy whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the alleged rape, following up on information it said had been provided to them by the victim.A number of the documents Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Ms. Mayorga. Mr. Ronaldo’s lawyers described the publication of the documents, which included a questionnaire Der Spiegel said detailed events that occurred in a suite at the Palms hotel almost a decade ago, as “blatantly illegal.”Mr. Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Ms. Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said.According to her lawsuit, Ms. Mayorga reported the assault to the police later that day and received a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Ms. Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at that time. The case was reopened at Ms. Mayorga’s request in September.News of the warrant came two days after a second woman, Jasmine Lennard, an English model and reality television star who previously wrote a tell-all about her relationship with Mr. Ronaldo, accused him of violent behavior in a series of posts on Twitter.In more than a dozen posts, Ms. Lennard said Mr. Ronaldo had threatened to “have me kidnapped and have my body cut up and put in a bag and thrown in a river” if she dated somebody else. She also tweeted offers of help to Ms. Mayorga’s lawyers.She did not share the “hundreds of messages” she said she had kept, however, and later deleted her Twitter account. In a statement provided to a British newspaper, Mr. Ronaldo’s legal team said the player had never had contact with Ms. Lennard, and would take “appropriate legal action in due course.”Ms. Lennard could not be reached for comment on her accusations.Larissa Drohobyczer, a lawyer for Ms. Mayorga, confirmed in an email that she had spoken to Ms. Lennard. She did not have any details of the Las Vegas police investigation, but added: “The issuance of the warrant for Ronaldo’s DNA shows that the LVMPD is taking this investigation seriously.”In the months since the reports in Der Spiegel, which came shortly after Mr. Ronaldo’s move from Real Madrid to Juventus in a deal worth more than $114 million, Mr. Ronaldo has tried to brush aside the scandal by focusing on his game — he leads the Italian league in scoring with 14 goals — and promoting his brand.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sophie HaigneyA stunt that went wrong on the set of the TV show “L.A.’s Finest” last week, leaving two producers injured, is the latest in a string of incidents that have drawn renewed attention to the dangers of stunt work. It came just days after the Occupational Safety and Health Administration cited a subsidiary of CBS for a stunt-related injury, and after a lawsuit was filed by the widow of a man who worked as a stunt double.The “L.A.’s Finest” accident, which occurred Thursday on the set of the drama series, involved a stunt with a vehicle. “The vehicle’s trajectory led to a collision with set pieces in the safe viewing area,” said Philip Sokoloski, a spokesman for FilmLA, the official film office for the City and County of Los Angeles. The show is produced by Sony Pictures Television and is set to premiere this spring on Spectrum as the cable provider’s first original series.The two producers who were injured were transported to two different hospitals in the area for treatment, Sokoloski said. He said that filming scheduled for Feb. 22 had been postponed.The Sony Pictures Television president, Jeff Frost, and co-presidents Chris Parnell and Jason Clodfelter, said in a statement: “Our hearts go out to our SPT family members who were injured and we pray for a full recovery.” The California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, Cal/OSHA, confirmed that it was investigating the accident.Stunt work is a sometimes dangerous and physically difficult subset of the entertainment industry. In a report in The New York Times in 2017, some stuntmen and women described a macho culture and a “gung-ho mentality.” Safety concerns have been raised for decades, especially after the death of an actor and two children in a helicopter crash on the set of “Twilight Zone: The Movie” in 1982, but there has been little success in efforts toward regulation. Fatalities are uncommon, although in 2017, a stuntwoman died on the set of “Deadpool 2” and a stuntman died on the set of “The Walking Dead.” Data about injuries on sets are sketchy and unreliable, as are most workplace safety statistics, which largely rely on information self-reported by employers.But recent regulatory action brought some safety issues to light again: Last week, OSHA cited Eye Productions Inc., a division of CBS, for “failing to protect employees from hazards” in August 2018. A man was injured on the set of “MacGyver” while performing a stunt on a moving vehicle traveling at 18 miles per hour; OSHA said he did not have “adequate head protection.” The proposed penalty is $9,472.A representative for CBS declined to comment on the citation and the fine.Also last week, the widow of the former football player and stunt double Darryl Hammond filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles that named the Walt Disney Company, Paramount Pictures and Columbia Pictures as defendants, along with the Arena Football League. The suit claims that while filming movies including “The Longest Yard” and “Invincible,” Hammond, who died in 2017, suffered traumatic head injuries that exposed him to neurodegenerative diseases. It alleges negligence, wrongful death and breach of contract, among other things. Representatives for Disney and Paramount did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the lawsuit; a spokeswoman for Sony Pictures Entertainment, of which Columbia Pictures is a subsidiary, declined to comment.Peter Libbey contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonLawyers for Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, and 14 other men charged with soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla., have filed a motion in Palm Beach County, Fla., to keep private all evidence in the case, which includes hidden camera video of the men inside a massage parlor over several days in late January.In the filing, the lawyers said the evidence had not been produced in discovery, and therefore should remain confidential. The lawyers added that their clients “dispute the position of the prosecutors that there may be a ‘victim’ of any offense at issue in these cases,” a suggestion that they do not believe sex trafficking was taking place at the massage parlor, as prosecutors have alleged.In asking the court to seal the evidence, the lawyers may be trying to prevent the evidence from leaking and becoming public, which could be embarrassing.Mr. Kraft, by far the most well-known defendant in the group, pleaded not guilty to two first-degree misdemeanor solicitation charges at the end of February. The prosecutors said Mr. Kraft, who is accused as a first-time offender, was unlikely to face jail time in this case.On Tuesday, the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County offered Mr. Kraft and the 24 other men who were similarly accused of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor called the Orchids of Asia day spa a chance to have the charges dropped if they agreed to do 100 hours of community service, take a class on the dangers of prostitution, get tested for sexually transmitted diseases and pay a fine.The men would also have to agree that if the case had gone to trial, the prosecutors would have won. This would effectively force them to admit guilt even though they have pleaded not guilty to the charges.It is unclear how many of the defendants have agreed to the terms to settle their cases.The motion regarding the evidence in the case may be a way for Mr. Kraft and the other defendants to signal that they are unwilling to accept the current deal offered by the prosecutors to have the charges dropped.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Marc TracyINDIANAPOLIS — First it was Kyler Murray’s height. Then it was Kyler Murray’s weight. And then, after Kyler Murray’s weight, it was Kyler Murray’s hand size.By Friday, when Murray appeared before the news media, the chatter at the weeklong N.F.L. combine — an annual predraft meat market that makes little pretense of being anything subtler — had been dominated by discussions of his physical qualifications (or lack thereof). Does he, the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback for Oklahoma who is preparing for April’s draft, really have what is needed to succeed as a pro?Gil Brandt, the former Dallas Cowboys personnel chief, could not remember more buzz around a draft prospect.“This is the most in history,” Brandt said, “and I’ve been doing this since 1977.”A number of factors have contributed to the Kyler craze.Three months ago, he and Scott Boras, the most powerful of baseball agents, told anyone who asked that Murray planned to finish his sole season as the Sooners’ starting quarterback and then report to spring training with the Oakland Athletics, who picked him ninth over all in last year’s Major League Baseball draft and agreed to pay him a $4.66 million signing bonus.Instead, after acquitting himself admirably in a national playoff semifinal loss to Alabama, Murray announced that his focus would remain on football after all. He effectively spurned the A’s and their money in favor of pursuing his gridiron dreams, even though as quarterbacks go, he is, charitably speaking, not tall.Murray did not know what N.F.L. teams thought of him until he completed his productive 2018 season, he told several dozen journalists on Friday as they gathered in a corner of the mammoth Indianapolis Convention Center. “The N.F.L. kind of heated up,” he said, “and here we are.”Recently, there have been a couple of successful quarterbacks who stand south of six feet tall. But just how short (or tall) is Murray? Clearly the neutral arbiter that is the N.F.L. combine would figure this out. That is what happens here.And his hands: Are they big enough? Is his palm of requisite heft to support a regulation football, his fingers sufficiently long to curl around the ball’s pebbled leather? (As is often the case when the topic is men and sports, there is subtext, and size matters.)Murray was measured Thursday, and the white smoke from the sacred space soon emitted good news: He is small, but not too small.Height: 5 feet 10⅛ inches. (As they always say, football is a game of eighths of an inch.)Weight: 207 pounds. He was closer to 195 while playing for Oklahoma last season, he said.Hand size: nine and one-half inches, from the pinkie’s tip to the thumb’s. Which is, apparently, ordinary for a quarterback.“I showed up, they told me to put my hand down, told me to stand here, step on the scale, and that’s what I did,” Murray said Friday. “And everybody made a big deal about it.”In fairness, this is a big deal — as big in its way, you might say, as the 10.88-inch hands of Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott. In proving his physical adequacy, Murray held out the chance of becoming that most valuable of sports commodities, a franchise quarterback.And yet the prototypical quarterback is bigger than Murray, the better to see and throw over his hulking offensive linemen and the equally hulking linemen on the other team. At combines past, for example, Tom Brady was measured at 6-4, Cam Newton at 6-5, Patrick Mahomes at over 6-2.Drew Brees and Russell Wilson are two current franchise quarterbacks closer to Murray’s stature. Murray has talked with Wilson, another standout baseball player, a couple of times.“Good to have him in my corner,” Murray said. “Obviously, I look up to him.” (Literally. During his combine, Wilson was measured at 5-10⅝.)Also close to Murray and Wilson is Baker Mayfield, who was measured at 6-1 during last year’s combine. Murray backed up Mayfield at Oklahoma for the 2017 season, when Mayfield won the Heisman, after which the Cleveland Browns drafted him first over all.There is a tantalizing subplot to the question of whether Murray will follow Mayfield as the top pick. The Arizona Cardinals hold the No. 1 slot, but they selected a quarterback, Josh Rosen, early in the first round last year.However, they have since changed head coaches, and the new top man, Kliff Kingsbury, both played quarterback and coached in the Air Raid system — the offensive scheme in which Murray thrived at Oklahoma, and that Mahomes, a former Kingsbury protégé, proved transferable to the N.F.L. during his outstanding 2018 season with the Kansas City Chiefs.Has Murray met with the Cardinals? Yes, he said Friday, he has.Murray clarified a few other things as well, patiently addressing the scrum of reporters, his average-size hands at his sides.Yes, football is his final answer.“I was born a football player,” he said. “I love this game. There is no turning back.”No, he is not concerned that in choosing football over baseball, he doomed himself to a smaller paycheck. A reporter brought up the 13-year, $330 million contract that was reached on Thursday between the Philadelphia Phillies and Bryce Harper. How much is that per year, Murray wished to know. About $25.4 million.“There’s quarterbacks making more than him a year,” Murray said, and indeed there are.And, no, he does not fear that his choice will mean a greater likelihood of injury. “You can’t play this game scared,” he said.Teams that wish to evaluate him further will have to wait a little longer. The group of players with whom Murray has proceeded through the combine will do on-field drills Saturday at Lucas Oil Stadium, but Murray will not join them. Instead, he will throw and run for scouts on March 13 back on campus at Oklahoma.“The population of Norman will grow about 300 people,” Brandt said. “Every coach and general manager will be there.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson, Victor Mather and Patricia MazzeiWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Three weeks and a day after he watched his team win its sixth Super Bowl championship, Robert K. Kraft was formally charged with two counts of soliciting prostitution.Mr. Kraft, who lives in Massachusetts but has owned property in Palm Beach, Fla., for a number of years, was one of 25 men caught in a sting operation at a spa called Orchids of Asia, a small storefront business in a strip mall in Jupiter, Fla.On Friday, Jupiter police filed two second-degree charges against Mr. Kraft, but State Attorney Dave Aronberg of Palm Beach County increased the severity of the charges to two first-degree misdemeanors. If convicted, Mr. Kraft could face up to a year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service, Mr. Aronberg said. He added that it was unlikely a first-time offender would spend time in jail.“Human trafficking is evil in our midst,” Mr. Aronberg said. “It is fueled on the demand side.”The charges are the latest crisis for the Patriots and Mr. Kraft, who is one of the N.F.L.’s most powerful owners, a trustee emeritus and longtime benefactor of Columbia University and a friend of President Trump’s. Mr. Aronberg made it clear that Mr. Kraft would not receive special treatment because of his prominence.“Our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent,” Mr. Aronberg said. “No one gets special treatment in Palm Beach County.”The N.F.L., which will have to consider a punishment for Mr. Kraft, released a statement expressing the same sentiment Monday morning.“Our Personal Conduct Policy applies equally to everyone in the N.F.L.,” the unsigned league statement read. “We will handle this allegation in the same way we would handle any issue under the policy. We are seeking a full understanding of the facts, while ensuring that we do not interfere with an ongoing law enforcement investigation. We will take appropriate action as warranted based on the facts.”Through the Patriots, Mr. Kraft has denied engaging in illegal activity. A team spokesman said on Monday that the Patriots would not comment on the new charges.Mr. Aronberg said that because Mr. Kraft was considered a local resident, he had received a summons in the mail. He will not be booked into the local jail or appear in a mug shot. His lawyer can appear on his behalf in court.Details of the case against Mr. Kraft emerged Monday through an affidavit, which described his two visits to the spa that were caught on video.According to the affidavit, one of Mr. Kraft’s visits occurred in the late afternoon of Jan. 19, a Saturday. He arrived in a 2014 white, chauffeur-driven Bentley, and he was wearing a blue shirt and ball cap, the affidavit said. He spent about 40 minutes at the spa, during which time he undressed and lay on his back on a massage table as a woman massaged his genitals.As Mr. Kraft left the spa, the police followed the car, pulling it over in what was described as a traffic stop, and identified the owner of the Patriots.The next day, hours before the start of the A.F.C. championship game, Kraft arrived at the spa just before 11 a.m. He entered the room and hugged a masseuse. Once again, a woman was observed with her hands on his genitals, according to the affidavit, and then she was seen placing her head close to his pelvic area. The woman helped him get dressed. Mr. Kraft hugged her and gave her a $100 bill and another, unidentifiable form of currency. He was on his way 14 minutes after he arrived.Mr. Kraft later traveled to Kansas City, where he watched the Patriots defeat the Chiefs to earn their third consecutive trip to the Super Bowl.“This is not about lonely old men or victimless crime,” Mr. Aronberg said. “This is about enabling a network of criminals to traffic women into our country for forced labor and sex.”On Friday, the Jupiter police announced the charges, the result of an investigation into human trafficking that involved multiple agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security. None of the men charged in the sting have been accused of being involved with human trafficking.Mr. Kraft is a member of the league’s powerful broadcast committee, as well as the compensation committee, which sets Commissioner Roger Goodell’s salary. Mr. Goodell, who has striven to convince fans that the N.F.L. is a female-friendly organization after several high-profile incidents of domestic violence involving players, now could be in a position to fine or suspend Mr. Kraft for his conduct.The N.F.L. gives Mr. Goodell broad authority to hold players and owners accountable for conduct he deems detrimental to the league. Previous punishments have included fines and suspensions, but also prohibitions that have barred owners from being at their team facilities or from attending games.The N.F.L. maintains a “reserve/commissioner exempt list” for players who are being investigated by the league for conduct violations. This is the list that Kareem Hunt, the former Kansas City Chiefs running back, landed on after video emerged of him pushing and kicking a woman. (The Chiefs cut him shortly after the video became public and the league put Hunt on the exempt list; Hunt signed with the Cleveland Browns this month, though he has not yet been cleared to play.)Players on the exempt list cannot practice or attend games, but they continue to be paid. It is not clear whether Mr. Goodell would suspend an owner pending the outcome of an investigation.Mr. Goodell is hired and paid by the owners, making his decision on potential discipline for Mr. Kraft a tricky one.Mr. Kraft and Mr. Goodell had been considered longtime allies. Their relationship was strained, however, by two earlier punishments for the Patriots: when Mr. Goodell disciplined the franchise for spying on other teams in 2007, and when he penalized the team and quarterback Tom Brady in a case that began in 2015 about deflating footballs for a competitive advantage.The team came under larger scrutiny when one of its players, Aaron Hernandez, was charged with first-degree murder. He was convicted in 2015, and he killed himself in his cell in 2017.Ken Belson reported from West Palm Beach, Victor Mather from New York, and Patricia Mazzei from Jupiter, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. It is, of course, entirely possible that you won’t be watching the Super Bowl on Sunday night. Just 103 million people watched the Eagles beat the Patriots last year, after all — that’s fewer than one in three Americans, by rough count. I get it. You might prefer to watch “Aida” on demand, from the Metropolitan Opera in New York, or tie flies, or read “Adèle,” Leila Slimani’s first novel, about a sex addict in upper-middle-class Paris. Football’s not for everyone.But you should eat well while doing whatever you’re going to be doing this weekend, and the football playbook provides good eating whatever the entertainment you choose. I love this collection of our best Super Bowl recipes. I love Julia Moskin’s recipe for Texas-style chili, indeed all chilis, a dish that is as delicious an accompaniment to prose and music as it is to ritualized television violence. Also, this party board of roasted vegetables with aioli, and this tray of buttery French TV cookies, and this recipe for family-meal fish tacos.That’s for Sunday, though. On Saturday, I think you could do a couple of things. The first is to take a long spin through Julia’s latest treatise for better living through organization, “How to Stock a Modern Pantry.” Shop and store things in its wake and your cooking in coming weeks will be all the happier, all the more delicious, all the easier.The second is to set yourself up for a great recipe from Tejal Rao that is the subject of her “Eat” column in The Times this week: brie en croute (above), a wheel of supermarket Camembert, baked in puff pastry, a relic of 1970s dinner parties no longer, a reliable way to delight. Serve that as a salad before or after or during a dinner of deviled chicken thighs with green beans and shallots. Saturday night’s all right.And don’t stint on breakfasts, in this season of midwinter. It is breakfast and vitamin D that will get us through to spring. You could make Chinese-style breakfast egg wraps, or a Dutch baby, or roasted grapefruit, or avocado toast. Go light on lunch and then fire yourself up for those big dinners I suggest above.Close to 20,000 more recipes are awaiting your attention on NYT Cooking. (Stipulation: You will need to sign up for a subscription to access them. Worth it!) You can find us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter as well. That’s where we traffic in yet more recipes and digital hijinks.We’re here for you if you run into trouble with any of it along the way — with the cooking, the bureaucracy, the technology. Just ask for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. Or, if you’re mad about it, get in touch with me: foodeditor@nytimes.com. I can’t fix anything, really, but I can take a punch.Now, it’s a far cry from chia seeds and finely milled flour, but you should read Lily Burana on Longreads, on her youth as a peep-show girl in Times Square.Just as sadly, you should watch this video from The New Yorker, “Lifeboat,” about German volunteers in the Mediterranean, rescuing refugees from Libya.Finally, uplift. Here’s Biosis Now, “Independent Bahamas.” Have a fantastic weekend. See you on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Ken BelsonThe quarterback Colin Kaepernick ignited impassioned debates over race, activism and free expression after protesting police shootings of black men by kneeling during “The Star-Spangled Banner” at National Football League games in 2016.The president tweeted his anger at him and dozens of other players who also knelt in protest during the national anthem. Some fans boycotted games over the players’ actions, and some boycotted the N.F.L. with the belief that Mr. Kaepernick, who failed to land a job the next season, was being blacklisted for his leadership in the movement.Now, two and a half years later, Mr. Kaepernick and a former teammate, Eric Reid, have reached a surprise legal settlement with the N.F.L., which they had accused of colluding to keep them out of the league.In a terse joint statement issued on Friday afternoon, the league and the players’ lawyers said that “the parties have decided to resolve the pending grievances” and that “there will be no further comment.”A confidentiality agreement means that, for all the debate and discussion the case generated, it ended with a silence that left hanging whether the league admitted there was any collusion and whether Mr. Kaepernick would ever play another down.Yet there most likely will be further discussion, as people debate whether Mr. Kaepernick was right and what enduring lesson the owners and league might draw from the saga.“The most important thing is he started a really important conversation that we’ve been having for a couple of years, and the people who were willing to have that conversation have learned some things,” said Michael MacCambridge, the author of “America’s Game: The Epic Story of How Pro Football Captured a Nation.”He added: “I suspect even if Kaepernick knew how long it would take he might have done it differently. But he took a social stand and he was willing to suffer the consequences of that.”Mr. Kaepernick, 31, who played for the San Francisco 49ers and took them to the Super Bowl after the 2012 season, has not played in the N.F.L. since the 2016 season, when he began the kneeling campaign. (At first he sat during the anthem, but a former player who is a military veteran suggested he kneel instead to make his point while respecting the American flag.)He filed a grievance under the league’s collective bargaining agreement in October 2017, months after failing to find a job, and his lawyers have been busy gathering evidence and testimony from numerous N.F.L. owners and league executives.The case seemed headed to a ruling this spring by an arbitrator, until the abrupt statement on Friday that left the sports world guessing on whether the league paid the players and how much.After protesting while playing for the 49ers, Mr. Reid, 27, also went unsigned for a period before playing most of last season for the Carolina Panthers. This week he signed a three-year contract with the team.It is unclear whether Kaepernick will continue trying to play professional football again.The settlement of their case was another unpredictable twist in a saga that began in August 2016 when Mr. Kaepernick, an African-American little known as an activist, began his protests during the anthem. He said the gesture was meant to draw attention to racism and police brutality against people of color.Several players across the league joined him in kneeling during the anthem, generating a national discussion over it and leaving the league flummoxed over how to respond. Last year the N.F.L. instituted a policy that said players could remain in the locker room during the playing of the national anthem, but that if they were on the field they would have to stand.But that policy was suspended after the N.F.L. Players Association filed a grievance, and it was never enforced.The sideline protest movement seemed to lose momentum, and few players knelt during this past season. Mr. Kaepernick has said little, reserving most of his comments for his social media accounts. During the Super Bowl this month he posted on his Instagram account pictures of athletes and celebrities wearing jerseys supporting his cause.On Friday, he only retweeted a statement from his lawyer, Mark Geragos.Mr. Kaepernick emerged from the protests as both a polarizing figure and a cultural symbol. Last year, Nike signed him to a lucrative endorsement deal even though he remained out of the league and largely silent, not typically what a brand wants from an endorser.A year before, Nike executives had decided to end their contract with Mr. Kaepernick, before being talked out of it. But with Mr. Kaepernick’s growing stature in the civil rights movement, the apparel company decided to make him a face of its “Just Do It” campaign, debuting a commercial narrated by Mr. Kaepernick during the opening game of the N.F.L. season.Legal experts have said collusion cases are notoriously difficult to prove, which makes it highly unusual for the league to settle a case like this. It is possible Mr. Kaepernick’s lawyers had gathered enough persuasive evidence and testimony from owners, league officials and football experts that Mr. Kaepernick stood a reasonable chance of persuading the arbitrator hearing the case to rule in his favor.Frank Hawkins, a former senior vice president of the N.F.L., said he thought the league was probably more worried about embarrassing statements from owners getting out through a hearing than about losing the case.“People say stupid things, things get taken out of context,” he said. “So I think there was a reasonable potential for embarrassment and it is something that if they could settle it at a reasonable cost, they would probably just think it was worth paying nuisance value.”Had Mr. Kaepernick won his case in a full hearing, he would have been eligible to receive the money he might have earned if he were signed as a free agent. In addition, he may have received double that amount in punitive damages. In his final year with the 49ers, Mr. Kaepernick earned more than $14 million.Carl Tobias, an expert on civil litigation who teaches at the University of Richmond School of Law, said that parties settle for all sorts of reasons, even when they believe they may prevail in court. But the N.F.L., he said, most likely wanted to move on from the issue rather than risk an adverse ruling that could, among other things, taint negotiations over the league’s collective bargaining agreement, which will expire in two seasons.“I think the N.F.L. just wanted to get this behind them and not have this threat hanging over them,” Mr. Tobias said. “I think they’d pay whatever they’d get away with to stop the hemorrhaging and the negative light on the league.”According to the collective bargaining agreement between the league and the union, the burden is on the player to prove that owners actively conspired against him.“That is often difficult to do because parties typically don’t leave a written record of their illegal maneuvering,” said William Gould, who was chairman of the National Labor Relations Board at the time of the Major League Baseball strike in 1994.Mr. Kaepernick, however, received a favorable ruling in August when the arbitrator overseeing the case, Stephen B. Burbank, dismissed the league’s attempt to have the case thrown out, allowing lawyers for Mr. Kaepernick to question owners and league officials in a format similar to a trial.It was anticipated that Mr. Burbank would rule on the case in the coming months, and as of last week lawyers for Mr. Kaepernick were still preparing for final hearings in front of Mr. Burbank, according to a person with knowledge of the preparations.Even though Mr. Kaepernick has not played in more than two years, and his play had grown erratic in his last months on the field, his name had continued to surface every time an N.F.L. team signed a new quarterback. Many of these quarterbacks had less experience or statistically did not seem to measure up to him.Mr. Kaepernick’s name also continued to be invoked at major N.F.L. events, including the Super Bowl this month, when musicians said they would not perform during halftime out of sympathy for his case.The Associated Press reported this week that a new league, the Alliance of American Football, spoke with Mr. Kaepernick but that he wanted at least $20 million to consider playing in it.Mr. Kaepernick’s collusion case at times also exposed a bit of a rift between himself and the players’ union. Mr. Kaepernick hired his own lawyers for the case instead of going through the union, and the union’s statement on the resolution said it was informed of the settlement by the N.F.L. and was unaware of the terms.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The Saints’ locker room at the Superdome was consumed by silence. Players dressed quickly before departing. A mountain of shoulder pads formed at the center of the room, next to a couple of yellow duffel bags labeled “PLAYOFFS.” Defensive tackle David Onyemata pulled on black jeans with designer rips that revealed skinned knees.When running back Mark Ingram was asked for his reaction to the moment that had freshly defined the N.F.C. championship on Sunday afternoon, he stared at the floor in front of him and shook his head. When he finally spoke, it came out a whisper.“I can’t say any words,” he said.The topic of the day, and one that will probably linger like a noxious cloud over football-crazed New Orleans for years, was a noncall that had helped the Los Angeles Rams secure their Super Bowl berth with a 26-23 overtime victory over the Saints. On a cold day outside, the crowd left the building bubbling with rage. Most of the players tried to exercise at least some restraint.“Nothing you can do about it now,” wide receiver Tommylee Lewis said.The play in question happened late in the fourth quarter of a tie game. On third-and-10 at the Rams’ 13, Saints quarterback Drew Brees lofted a pass toward Lewis, who had run a wheel route out of the backfield toward the right sideline. But well before the ball arrived, Lewis was clobbered by cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman, who had his back to Brees and to the airborne ball — and later acknowledged that, yes, he had probably committed a pass-interference penalty.“I just know I got there before the ball got there, and I whacked his ass,” Robey-Coleman said.The only problem: The official closest to the play did not penalize Robey-Coleman for pass interference. It came as a shock to just about everyone, including Robey-Coleman, who recalled hearing the official yell, “Incomplete!” Per league rules, judgment calls like pass interference are not subject to video review.“I got up and I looked around, and no laundry,” Robey-Coleman said, referring to the absence of a yellow penalty flag.Had the official thrown one, the Saints would have been awarded a first down, allowing them to run down the clock before attempting a winning field goal (or even scoring a touchdown). The Rams probably never would have gotten the ball back.Instead, the Saints had to kick a field goal on fourth down that put them ahead by 23-20 with 1 minute 41 seconds to play in regulation. It turned out to be more than enough time for the Rams to march down the field and make a 48-yard field goal that sent the game to overtime. Los Angeles eventually won the game on a 57-yard field goal by Greg Zuerlein.In his postgame news conference, Saints Coach Sean Payton said he had spoken by phone immediately after the game with Alberto Riveron, the N.F.L.’s senior vice president for officiating, and the league office.“The first thing Al said when I got on the phone: ‘We messed it up,’” Payton said, adding: “It was simple: They blew the call. It should never have not been a call. They said, ‘Not only was it interference, it was helmet to helmet.’ Two calls.”It was the second straight season that a Saints playoff run ended in heartbreak. Last season, it was a divisional-round loss to the Minnesota Vikings on a 61-yard touchdown reception as time expired — a fluke play that seemed impossible to replicate in terms of soul-crushing consequences.But then, there was Sunday afternoon.“That’s tough to swallow,” Brees said. “I think there were plenty of times throughout the season where there’s calls that go against you, go for you, or they miss, or they didn’t. Obviously, in a situation like that where it seemed like everybody in the world saw it, it’s tough.”Tough, too, because of the Saints’ realistic Super Bowl aspirations. They finished the regular season tied for the best record in the N.F.C., and the Rams were coming to their building, where the crowd tends to be inhospitable to opponents at best — and downright ruthless at worst. The noise was so bad for the Rams on Sunday that quarterback Jared Goff had to put tape over the ear holes of his helmet so he could hear the audio coming from his coach.Payton, though, has had a contentious relationship with the league, and an errant call — which the N.F.L. admitted making — in such a crucial moment seems sure to add to an already robust sense of injustice in New Orleans.Much of that agita stems from the so-called Bountygate scandal, in which the Saints coaching staff was found to have rewarded players who injured opponents. As a part of the fallout, Payton was barred by the league from coaching during the 2012 season, and some of the scars are still evident, all these years later.On Sunday, defensive end Cameron Jordan suggested that the referees were biased against the Saints.“We know for a long time that we don’t get calls that way,” Jordan said, adding: “As far as I’ve known, we haven’t had referees that go gung-ho for the Saints. We’ve got to put ourselves in the best position so we’re not able to be touched.“Will it haunt that ref? Who cares. Will it haunt this team? This will be something that will be another defining moment for us.”As for Robey-Coleman, the Rams cornerback who made the hit, he appeared to sense his place in football lore almost immediately.“They’re going to show that forever,” he said, referring to the clip of the play. “They’re going to show that forever. New Orleans is going to hate me.”He did not sound very sad about it.Ben Shpigel contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinQuarterback Johnny Manziel’s brief foray into the Canadian Football League ended abruptly on Wednesday when the league instructed the Montreal Alouettes to terminate Manziel’s contract for an undisclosed violation of terms and then barred any of the league’s other teams from signing the former Heisman Trophy winner.The Alouettes released a statement explaining that it was following orders from the C.F.L. to cut Manziel, 26, “after it was found that he had contravened the agreement which made him eligible to play in the league.”🚨BREAKING NEWS🚨The @MTLAlouettes have released QB Johnny Manziel.FOR MORE | https://t.co/IbobgzO908 pic.twitter.com/mzVY5dn4BK“We are disappointed by this turn of events,” the Alouettes’ general manager, Kavis Reed, said in a statement. “Johnny was provided a great deal of support by our organization, in collaboration with the C.F.L., but he has been unable to abide by the terms of his agreement. We worked with the league and presented alternatives to Johnny, who was unwilling to proceed.”Reed told reporters in Montreal that the Alouettes had cut Manziel only because of the C.F.L. order.“No sir,” Reed said. “Mr. Manziel’s performance on the field showed that he had a very good upside. But Mr. Manziel violated the terms, and we all understood those terms and we have to be compliant with them.”Before he entered into negotiations with the Hamilton Tiger Cats last March, Manziel had to agree to several strict provisions in his contract, presumably because he had a history of substance abuse and arrests, including one related to accusations that he had struck a former girlfriend. But the specifics terms of the deal were not disclosed, and the league refused to make them public on Wednesday.“Mr. Manziel has been informed he must continue to meet a number of conditions in order to remain eligible,” the C.F.L. said in a statement last year. “These conditions, while extensive and exacting, remain confidential.”Manziel won the Heisman Trophy in 2012 after a dazzling season for Texas A&M. He was drafted by the Cleveland Browns with the 22nd overall pick in 2014 and started just eight games in two years with them. He was released in March 2016, after revelations of charges that he had struck and threatened the former girlfriend. Manziel and prosecutors came to a dismissal agreement, and he was required to seek counseling.Manziel wrote on his Twitter account that he hoped to play in the United States again. That could mean in one of two new development leagues. The Alliance of American Football began play this month. Another league, a revival of the XFL, is scheduled to begin play next February.“I look forward to exploring new options within the United States,” Manziel wrote.FREE AGENCY FOR FOLES Nick Foles rejuvenated his career in Philadelphia. Now he wants to turn his success into an N.F.L. starting job — and the Eagles intend to give him that chance.General Manager Howie Roseman told reporters on Wednesday that the team would not use the franchise tag on Foles, making him a free agent.Foles led the Eagles into the playoffs the last two seasons after their starting quarterback, Carson Wentz, was injured, and he was named the most valuable player of the Super Bowl last year when the Eagles won the title. But the Eagles were clear that Wentz, the No. 2 overall draft pick in 2016, was their established starter.“It’s hard when you have someone who is incredibly valuable to your organization, the most important position in sports,” Roseman said during the N.F.L.’s annual scouting combine in Indianapolis. “But at the same time, he deserves an opportunity to lead a team.” (AP)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders offer their ideas, which include mentions of Ann Coulter, Charlie Brown and a fence-renting company.To the Editor:Re “President Offers Deal on ‘Dreamers’ to Secure a Wall” (front page, Jan. 20) and “Senate Will Hold Competing Votes to End Shutdown” (front page, Jan. 23):President Trump and congressional Democrats appear to be locked in a political game of chicken, with federal government workers, government contractors and the public trapped in the middle. Mr. Trump’s offer of temporary protections for the Dreamers in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall was quickly rejected by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Two measures ending the shutdown that will be before the Senate on Thursday are not expected to pass.The current situation is untenable. The burden on federal workers is onerous and unfair. Creative solutions are needed to end this impasse. I offer two.First, a proven mediator, such as former Senator George Mitchell, could be appointed in an attempt to bring the parties to an agreement. Second, a bipartisan blue ribbon commission — composed of experts from government, business and academia — could be created to offer recommendations on how best to address our border issues, including people and drugs coming into our country.Time is of the essence. A deal must be struck soon to avoid irreparable harm to the federal government.Todd J. SchwartzWall, N.J. To the Editor:The Democrats should seize on this chance to end the shutdown. There’s no downside for them. It is not a question of bargaining anymore but of the suffering of the country. But even so, it’s a good deal. The Dreamers will get something they would otherwise have not gotten. And President Trump has learned his lesson.His approval ratings have gone down. His base is unhappy. There will be no more Trump shutdowns. And Democrats will avoid the risk of a shift in blame to them for their intransigence. And, the clincher: Ann Coulter doesn’t like it.Howard RachlinNew YorkTo the Editor:How about this? Democrats put forward a bill in the House for border security of $12 billion. This would be for more border patrol officers, upgraded equipment, improved facilities, etc., but not a wall.This would allow Democrats to show that they are tough on border security by more than doubling President Trump’s proposed funding. The bill must focus purely on border security — no other Democratic wish list items or conditions.Would Republican members of Congress and the president bite? Perhaps they’d see it as face-saving. Conversely, to reject it would be seen as obstructionist, risking voter wrath at the next election.Jim SpanierHoustonTo the Editor:Set a date for all federal employees to picket in front of President Trump’s hotels. Nothing gets his attention like money.Barbara LloydStratford, Conn.To the Editor:For all of his manifold and well-documented deficiencies, President Trump is not nearly as naïve as Charlie Brown. If Mr. Trump buys into Nancy Pelosi’s assurances that border security, including a wall or other physical barrier, can be discussed once the government is reopened, he is no smarter than Charlie thinking that this time Lucy will not snatch the football away just as he is about to kick it.David MacNeilChatham, N.J. To the Editor:There was fencing around a construction site here in Queens that my wife and I passed this morning, and on it was a sign that read: National Rent A Fence. Seeing it, my wife laughed and said, “Maybe Trump should try that.”James J. RushBayside, QueensAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bynews analysisA terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can be shared on a thumb drive. But stolen secrets come with complications.By Scott ShaneMr. Shane is a national security reporter for The Times.On the very day that Roger Stone was charged with lying about a momentous set of leaks that originated with Russian hackers, a feisty band of transparency activists led by a Boston woman posted a voluminous collection of leaks from inside Russia.It was less a coincidence than a trend, a consequence of technology and a defining feature of our time. We live in an age of leaks, for better or worse.The better part is easy: We get access to information powerful people and institutions want to keep secret. The worse part is more complicated, and requires more thoughtful consideration than it gets: Leaks often violate laws against hacking or theft and invade people’s privacy, not always with any higher purpose. They can be powerful, unpredictable, unfair weapons. They can allow one country to meddle, from a safe distance, in the affairs of another.To wit: The Democratic Party emails and documents, hacked by Russian intelligence and broadcast by WikiLeaks with the veteran political trickster Mr. Stone as cheerleader, may have allowed a foreign power to help elect an American president in 2016. Yet the new, sprawling archive of Russian leaks, ranging from government ties to the Russian Orthodox Church to the Kremlin’s management of its invasion of Ukraine, showed that the Russian state is a target of leaks these days as often as it is a leaker.Mass leaks, on a scale inconceivable back in the paper-only era, have become so routine globally that only the most extraordinary get extended attention. In South Africa, a Commission of Inquiry Into State Capture is fueled by “Gupta Leaks,” leaked emails detailing corrupt ties between government officials and the Gupta family’s business empire. In Hungary, a Portuguese man was just arrested and admitted to playing a central role in “Football Leaks,” which exposed unsavory financial dealings in international soccer. In Singapore, an American and his Singaporean physician boyfriend were accused of leaking the names of more than 14,000 people with an H.I.V. diagnosis.Leaks, an ancient metaphor, are a venerable human institution. “A talebearer revealeth secrets,” says Proverbs in an early complaint, “but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.” Thomas Paine, the revolutionary pamphleteer, has been described as the first American to be fired for leaking classified information — in 1779.But only in recent years have leaks attained industrial scale. A terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can now be slipped into your pocket on a thumb drive and carried off with your keys and chewing gum. If information is power, that is a lot of power in a small package. It is being wielded daily for many purposes.The same technological change has made information vulnerable to hacking, which means that insiders are no longer the only people capable of leaking it. On a regular basis, companies announce cyberthefts of customer data, causing bureaucratic hassles for millions of people. At the other end of the scale, leaks occasionally target individuals for embarrassment or extortion.But the most consequential leaks — many of them more like floods — are those that wield political power. The diplomatic cables Chelsea Manning gave to WikiLeaks in 2010 shed light on the hidden world of diplomacy. Edward Snowden’s National Security Agency documents, shared with journalists in 2013, prompted the White House, and then Congress, to set new limits on the surveillance of Americans. The Panama Papers, leaked to a German newspaper in 2015, prompted investigations of tax evasion and money laundering around the world.On balance, those gargantuan disclosures seem largely beneficial — even if not all diplomats, intelligence officers and tax lawyers would join the applause. But the big leaks of the current era are not all about war and peace, government oversight or financial equity. For journalists, the catnip appeal of scoops can overwhelm careful judgment about the value of the disclosures and problematic questions about sources.What about the Sony Pictures leaks — an act of vengeance by the North Korean leader for an insulting movie — which exposed mostly gossip, business secrets and employee Social Security numbers? What of the leaks of personal information from AshleyMadison.com, which helps facilitate extramarital affairs?What, for that matter, about the 20,000 Democratic National Committee emails and 20,000 more pages of emails to and from John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, that Mr. Stone is accused of lying about? That breach, weaponized by Russia in the midst of a presidential contest, illustrates well the ambiguous nature of such intrusions.The leaks were, after all, not disinformation, even if they were obtained by criminal means. The emails were real, which was why they drew so much media attention. “Four of the Juiciest Leaked Podesta Emails,” USA Today trumpeted a month before the 2016 election. The New York Times was only a little more demure: “Highlights From the Clinton Campaign Emails.”The leaks gave Mrs. Clinton cause to regret that she had not released the speeches she had delivered to private companies, which were now made public under the worst possible circumstances. It was agony for top Democrats whose private, sometimes snarky comments were aired.For Donald Trump and his supporters, including his old friend Mr. Stone, the emails were a campaign boon, a justified public airing of hidden Clinton truths. For future political historians, they may offer a few meaningful tidbits of insight into the Clinton campaign.Yet the leaks cannot be separated from those who made them happen: A foreign intelligence service intervened with significant impact on behalf of one side in an American election. Imagine that Russian officials had ignored Mrs. Clinton and instead hacked and published documents exposing Mr. Trump’s epic tax dodges and secret payments to paramours. Even die-hard Trump partisans might recognize that the race could have come out the other way.A different thought experiment, however, may be more timely. How would the leaks of Democratic emails be viewed had the data been hacked or leaked by a disgruntled American — a false story that Russia and Trump supporters pushed in 2016 — with no taint of foreign meddling? More Americans might accept the leaks as regrettable but inevitable political roughhousing. Such a scenario may be worth pondering. American political operatives, we recently learned, have begun to imitate Russia’s 2016 operations on social media, with two experiments in the 2017 Alabama Senate election.So it is almost certainly only a matter of time before Americans try out the hack-and-leak technique as well, as any student of old-school campaign dirty tricks can tell you. Just ask Roger Stone, who wrote in his book “Stone’s Rules”: “To win you must do everything.”Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College FootballBy Marc TracyPASADENA, Calif. — Last month, the Big Ten’s influential commissioner, Jim Delany, endorsed discussions to expand the College Football Playoff, just five seasons into the format’s 12-year contract.Expanding the four-team playoff to six or eight teams is likely to be a hot topic at the meetings many conferences will hold Monday, before that evening’s national championship game between Alabama and Clemson in Santa Clara, Calif.“It’s probably a good idea, given all the discussions and noise around the issue, to have conversations with our colleagues,” Delany told The Athletic.Delany might have ulterior motives — the Big Ten has now gone two seasons without getting a team into the playoff. But John Swofford, the Atlantic Coast Conference commissioner, echoed Delany last week in Arlington, Tex., before Clemson played in its fourth straight national semifinal.“What I see is a willingness to evaluate, take a look and gauge what a bigger field would mean,” Swofford said. “What are the implications? And are there ways to make something that I think is outstanding at the moment even better?”Then there are those who say there are only ways to make a good thing worse.On New Year’s Day, Kris Mapes, who won a free trip to the Rose Bowl from a raffle at a sports bar in Columbus, Ohio, lauded the purity of this year’s contest while tailgating in the parking lot. With Ohio State playing Washington, the game featured the Big Ten champion versus the Pacific-12 champion — just like in the old days, when, for more than 50 years, beginning in 1947, that matchup was a given.“With the playoff, there’s always an argument,” Mapes said, referring to the gripes of some teams left out of the four-team College Football Playoff. “When you go Big Ten versus Pac-12 champs, there’s no argument. You’re the winner of the Rose Bowl.”It was the traditionalist’s response to a question increasingly being given the nontraditional answer. It’s also probably the only easy answer to a complex question.The most popular proposed reform to the playoff is to expand it further, making the bracket bigger at the expense of traditions like a classic Rose Bowl.The Rose Bowl is at the center of the playoff debate because of its importance to the Big Ten and the Pac-12, and because it is the oldest and most famous bowl game. That has historically made it the biggest stumbling block to altering the postseason: first with the creation of the Bowl Championship Series for the 1998 season; then, later, with the larger playoff that began with the 2014 season.“In order to make any type of agreement that led to the B.C.S., you had to have the Rose Bowl be a part of it,” said Roy F. Kramer, the former Southeastern Conference commissioner who helped start the B.C.S., from his home in Tennessee.Under the current playoff system, the Rose Bowl hosts a national semifinal game every three years, with teams selected by a committee with no regard for conference affiliation. In the other two years, like this one, the Rose Bowl matches a Big Ten team with a Pac-12 team, but it must release those conferences’ champions should they qualify for the playoff. Two years ago, for instance, the Pac-12 champion was placed in a semifinal, so the Rose Bowl featured the conference’s runner-up, Southern California.During halftime of Tuesday’s Rose Bowl game, Pac-12 Commissioner Larry Scott reiterated his support for the status quo, saying the playoff “works very well for us.”“Washington had 27,000 tickets to sell. They sold all of them,” Scott said. “They’d never come anywhere close at the Fiesta Bowl, which they were in last year, or the semifinal game two years ago. The fans don’t respond to the semifinal, to the Fiesta Bowl, the same way they do to the Rose Bowl.”Whether that is gospel or merely a negotiating position remains to be seen. The powers behind the Rose Bowl have bent before and may again.Scott Jenkins, chairman of the Rose Bowl Management Committee, wore a red blazer as he described the game’s appeal during the second quarter. “Especially if you’re back in the Midwest,” he said, “where it’s probably cold, maybe there’s snow on the ground — it’s New Year’s, you see on television the sun and the mountains and everybody smiling and happy, and bright colors on the field — real grass.”Jenkins pledged that the Rose Bowl would continue to insist on certain particulars, saying, “If you’re looking at red lines in the sand: Pasadena. Jan. 1. Two o’clock.”He could have pointed to this season’s television viewership, which was essentially identical to the national semifinal at the Cotton Bowl, according to ESPN.Yet with the power of college football settled firmly in the South, it is difficult to see an expanded playoff accommodating all of Jenkins’s demands, and nearly impossible to envision one that has room for a Rose Bowl that pits the Big Ten and Pac-12 champions against each other.The most commonly suggested eight-team system would replace conference championship games with the national quarterfinals, while giving automatic bids to major conference champions — making traditions like a “true” Rose Bowl exceedingly rare.To many casual fans, who tune into broadcasts of differently colored teams on similarly shaded fields that may as well be in Topeka or Tokyo, turning the Rose Bowl into just another playoff game — or into even more of what they might already consider an exhibition game — would not matter much. For them, expansion will simply more than double the number of playoff games.That makes expansion advocates on the inside of college football see dollar signs. It also raises the hopes of some unknown number of casual fans that their team can someday sneak into an eight-team tournament, generating unparalleled excitement and entertainment through December.But Kramer, who as much as any individual is responsible for the advent of a unified postseason, suggested caution.Expansion, he said, “would be a mistake.” For one, it would devalue the regular season, he argued.For another, it would threaten the importance of the bowls, which, however meaningless they may be in terms of championships, still hold value for participants and their fans.“I’ve been to a lot of bowl games,” Kramer said, “and I never saw a team that was disappointed by going to a bowl game.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonOn Nov. 23, 2014, in a nationally televised Sunday night game against the Dallas Cowboys, Odell Beckham Jr., then a Giants rookie, leapt high in the end zone, twisted as he arched backward, fought off a defender and made a fingertip, one-handed touchdown grab that seemed unfathomable even in slow motion replay.The next day, Beckham’s acrobatics had physicists, mechanical engineers and sports scientists scratching their heads.“It was a bit like Spider-Man,” said Jim Gates, a professor of physics at the University of Maryland. “A near superhuman activity.”In that moment — in just the seventh game of a nascent pro career — Beckham’s place in N.F.L. lore was cemented.Within months, he had won the league’s Offensive Rookie of the Year award, played in the Pro Bowl and became the youngest player ever to grace the cover of the omnipresent Madden N.F.L. video game. Beckham’s No. 13 jersey quickly became the hottest-selling football apparel nationwide. He was the new face of the storied Giants franchise.It is hard to believe that a little more than four years later, Beckham has been brusquely jettisoned from the team. On Tuesday, the popular, if sometimes mercurial, Beckham was traded to the Cleveland Browns for Jabrill Peppers, a safety with a modest record of N.F.L. achievement, and two draft picks (the 17th and 95th of next month’s draft) that, while valuable, are not likely to yield a star of Beckham’s magnitude.Beckham’s mystifying departure may be a window into a new N.F.L., in which players and teams can transition from seemingly amicable partners — Beckham signed a five-year, $90 million  contract extension with the Giants about six months ago — to rivals on opposing sidelines faster than ever before.Star players were once bound to teams for many years because restrictive guidelines made unfettered free agency hard to achieve. There is more movement in the modern N.F.L., and even Beckham’s contract, which at the time made him the highest-paid wide receiver in football, did not mean that the Giants wanted him around for long. Still, Beckham’s trade did not happen in a vacuum. In the last week, Antonio Brown and Le’Veon Bell, whose offensive production in Pittsburgh made them prospective Hall of Fame players, moved on from the Steelers.Beckham, 26, surely played a role in his exit. He embarrassed himself and the team with his mano-a-mano slugfest with Josh Norman, which contributed to a 2015 Giants loss. His end zone celebrations could be profane, and his antics on the sideline self-aggrandizing. As the leader of an ill-advised, overnight Florida boating trip when the team was preparing for a rare playoff game — followed by an inferior performance in a loss at Green Bay — he continued to demonstrate a level of immaturity.A television interview last fall in which Beckham did not show support for quarterback Eli Manning and seemed to question his teammates’ effort produced more hand-wringing in the Giants offices at the highest levels, including ownership. A portion of the Giants fandom also began to sour on Beckham because of his volatility.In today’s N.F.L., some teams choose to abandon their hefty investments in players who are distractions rather than wait for those players to become such problems that they must be moved. Or team executives ditch the player before he tries to force a trade, as Brown did, and in that way maintain their trading leverage.The real surprise in the Beckham case is that it was the staid Giants who chose to push their most talented and popular player out the door — and to do it in his prime. The Giants are historically much more conscious and concerned about fan reaction to their transactions. But not in this situation. Beckham was dispensable, even if it meant that the tens of thousands of Giants fans with one of Beckham’s replica jerseys hanging in a closet — many of them prized fans under the age of 35 — were thunderstruck by Tuesday’s deal.The Giants fan base is already reeling, and not just because its team has had one winning season since 2012. Beckham’s trade is just one of several recent purges of the team’s roster that have left many fans confounded and angry. There are, for example, only three players remaining from the team’s Week 1 starting lineup in 2016.Moreover, if there is a clear path that the Giants are following, indeed if there is a plan at all, it’s not easily deciphered.Yes, the Giants are in a rebuilding mode. But they will have to rebuild with financial constraints. About $16 million of Beckham’s salary will count against the Giants’ 2019 cap, and more startling, that’s less than half of the $32.5 million on this year’s salary cap ledger for players who are not here anymore: The Giants also recently traded or cut players like cornerback Eli Apple, defensive end Olivier Vernon, defensive tackle Damon Harrison and offensive lineman Patrick Omameh.And Manning is due about $23 million next season. That total could be reduced if Manning is cut in a few days, before his bonus is due. If that happens, it may provide some clarity on the front office’s apparent overall strategy of tearing down everything to start over. But losing Manning on top of Beckham may leave some Giants loyalists apoplectic. If not catatonic.In the end, Beckham’s exit underscores another relevant pattern: Every Giants first-round draft choice from 2013 to 2016 has either been traded or released by the team. Of the 70 players the Giants selected from 2008 to 2017, only six remain.More than any other factor, that is why the Giants have lost 24 of their last 32 games and have not won a playoff game in seven years. With his magical pass-catching skills, Beckham was once seen as a Giants savior. The team and its fans now have to find a new one.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Rod NordlandKABUL, Afghanistan — He was their nightmare, the young, female Afghan soccer players say: a menacing 57-year-old with two wives who locked the door to his back office with a biometric keypad that only he could open.Many of those young soccer players, members of the women’s national team, lined up to accuse the man, the president of Afghan soccer, Keramuddin Keram, of sexually assaulting them in a bed he kept in that room, and elsewhere, charges they made both in public statements and to Afghan prosecutors. Women who rebuffed his advances were labeled lesbians and expelled from the team, according to eight former players who said that had happened to them.Three months later, however, the investigation into sexual abuse in Afghan soccer is stalled, amid fears it will never proceed. It has yet to result in any criminal charges.One of Mr. Keram’s accusers, the soccer player Khalida Popal, said he had actively pursued women who testified against him in Afghanistan, warning them to withdraw the charges. And witnesses like her who live in exile have not been interviewed in person by Afghan investigators, as required by law, because so far the investigators have not been able to get visas.Mr. Keram remains the president of the Afghanistan Football Federation, which is in charge of men’s and women’s soccer, the country’s most popular sport, although he is suspended by order of the attorney general. And FIFA, the governing body for world soccer, has just extended Mr. Keram’s ban from participating in national and international soccer for three more months, as its own investigation, nearly a year old, grinds on.Neither FIFA nor Mr. Keram responded to requests for comment.Despite public support from President Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan investigation has run into a powerful lobby made up of supporters of Mr. Keram from Panjshir, a politically dominant province in northern Afghanistan. Once a local warlord and later governor of the province, Mr. Keram remains well connected with the Jamiat-i-Islami party, the major political force in the north.Prosecutors have the power to arrest Mr. Keram but have not done so, though they have blocked him from leaving the country. “If the investigative committee thinks they need to arrest him, they will do so,” said Jamshid Rasooli, the attorney general’s spokesman.Mr. Rasooli confirmed a report by ToloNews, an Afghan television news program, that two of the attorney general’s investigators had not yet obtained visas to interview witnesses in Europe, which has led to speculation that the visas were denied for fear that the investigators would claim asylum themselves. He said they had been waiting for the visas for more than a month.Ms. Popal, 31, reached by telephone in Denmark, said she had heard from at least three soccer players in the past two months who withdrew their charges against Mr. Keram after they received direct, personal threats from him.Two of the women answered calls from someone they knew, who then handed the phone to Mr. Keram. In the third case, the woman was walking to soccer practice in Kabul near the football federation offices when she was forced into a car with blacked-out windows, finding Mr. Keram inside, Ms. Popal was told.“He told them, ‘I know you have been to the attorney general’s office and given testimony against us,’ ” Ms. Popal said. “ ‘Go and take back the testimony. You know I am a powerful person. Nobody will put me in jail. I will win this case. It’ll take some time, but then what will happen to you? Think about your future and what will happen to you and your family.’ ”Ms. Popal said the three women, whom she declined to identify for their safety, had gone into hiding and were no longer willing to testify against Mr. Keram.Mr. Keram did not respond to repeated efforts to contact him for comment. A spokesman for the Afghan federation, Shafi Shadab, who had earlier spoken on behalf of Mr. Keram, said Saturday that the attorney general had ordered him to have no further contact with the soccer chief. The federation’s Facebook page has posted a statement denying all of the charges.Ms. Popal was one of the founders of women’s soccer in Afghanistan and remained active with the team after fleeing to Denmark, where she claimed asylum in 2011. She accused Mr. Keram of the rape and sexual assault of other players and claimed to have evidence that she had reported those claims to the federation early last year with no response.“The president of A.F.F. and some trainers are raping and sexually harassing female players,” she said in a December interview. She earlier made similar claims in an interview with The Guardian.In addition to Mr. Keram, four other members of the federation were suspended and banned from travel. The ban on one of them, the federation’s deputy president, Yosuf Kargar, was lifted in January after the attorney general’s office said it had found no evidence against him.Mr. Keram appealed his suspension by FIFA but was denied.Earlier, the sponsor of the Afghan national women’s team, the Danish sportswear manufacturer Hummel, withdrew its financial support over what it called “strong allegations of severe mental, physical, sexual and equal rights abuse of the female players by male A.F.F. officials.”Last month, Kelly Lindsey, the American coach of the Afghan women’s team, urged FIFA to step in and take more concrete action. It could, for instance, ban the Afghan teams from competition.“I think FIFA really needs to stand up here. They are the governing body of football and if they allow this to happen in their culture, then it’s easy for it to be pushed under the rug,” she said in an interview with Reuters.FIFA has defended its actions, noting that it suspended Mr. Keram and is investigating the allegations. It added that it had “zero tolerance” for sexual abuse. Last week, FIFA said the head of its investigation had requested that Mr. Keram’s ban be extended for 90 days, and that the organization had agreed.“During this time, Mr. Karim will continue to be banned from all football-related activities at both national and international level,” it said, using an alternative transliteration of Mr. Keram’s name.Human Rights Watch weighed in last month, urging both FIFA and the Afghan authorities to move more decisively on their investigations. “FIFA, which said it began investigating these allegations last April, should share information with Afghan investigators and maintain a ban on accused officials,” the rights group said.Mr. Rasooli said the Afghan attorney general was determined to fully pursue the case against Mr. Keram and the others accused. They have not been arrested, he said, because under Afghan law that would limit the time the authorities had to conduct their investigation.“This is a complicated case,” he said. “We have interviewed 30 witnesses inside Afghanistan and that part of the case is almost completed.”He added that the authorities still hoped to obtain European visas for investigators.Ms. Popal said she was still hopeful that the investigation of Mr. Keram and his colleagues would succeed.“I really respect and trust the committee in the attorney general’s office working on this case,” she said. “At the same time, I don’t know how powerful they are once the case is out of their hands. And he is a powerful guy, with so much influence inside the government.”An earlier version of this article described incorrectly a report by the Afghan program ToloNews about European visa applications by two government investigators. The report said they had not yet obtained the visas, not that the visas had been denied.Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @rodnordland.Fahim Abed contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaFIFA President Gianni Infantino’s plans to reorder world soccer are being stymied by a familiar foe: Europe.Since proposing several major changes to the sport’s calendar last spring, Infantino has spent months traveling the world hosting minisummits with the leaders of FIFA’s 211 member federations. His goal is to win support for a proposal to introduce two new tournaments — an expanded World Cup for clubs and a new league for national teams — that would be underwritten by a $25 billion offer from a group led by the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank.The listening exercise follows repeated failures by Infantino to force the proposals through FIFA’s governing council, but if they are approved they would represent the biggest changes to soccer in a generation, and their adoption — and the multibillion-dollar cash infusion to FIFA — would provide Infantino with a signature success ahead of his bid to secure a second term as FIFA president later this year.Each of the meetings on Infantino’s tour, including the most recent one held in Marrakesh, Morocco, has included about 50 federation leaders from across soccer’s six regional confederations. At the end of each session, the federation representatives are handed electronic tablets and asked to select their preferred options for the new tournaments.Infantino’s problem is that European officials attending the meetings have stubbornly refused to offer any opinions. Instead, they have told Infantino and his team that the feelings of Aleksander Ceferin, the president of the European governing body, UEFA, and his governing council represent their views.Some of the Europeans balked because the list of options for the Club World Cup did not include the option of not holding the tournament, which is often an annoyance for the European champion who attends, at all. On FIFA’s tablets, voters are asked to pick from only three choices: a tournament with 16, 24 or 32 teams.Ceferin, under pressure from clubs and federations in Europe, has clashed repeatedly with Infantino over the proposed changes both to the Club World Cup and to the broader global soccer calendar, with Ceferin most frustrated by new initiatives that could challenge the hegemony of existing club tournaments like UEFA’s Champions League and add to the workload of players.“I cannot accept that some people who are blinded by the pursuit of profit are considering to sell the soul of football tournaments to nebulous private funds,” Ceferin said in a speech last May. “Money does not rule — and the European sports model must be respected. Football is not for sale. I will not let anyone sacrifice its structures on the altar of a highly cynical and ruthless mercantilism.”Infantino first presented details of a plan for an expanded Club World Cup at a FIFA Council meeting in Bogotá, Colombia, last March. Citing a nondisclosure agreement, he refused to identify the financial backers of the proposal, which are believed to include not only SoftBank but also financing from the Middle East, which Infantino eventually denied were directly linked to sovereign wealth funds. (Saudi Arabia remains the biggest individual backer over Softbank’s Vision Fund, the biggest private-equity fund ever raised.) Instead, Infantino pressed the council to let him close the deal on his own.European leaders at the meeting balked, and Ceferin and Infantino have not held a meeting since the Colombia summit. In October, European officials threatened to walk out of the last meeting when Infantino suggested he planned to call another vote.The vote did not take place; instead, FIFA set up a task force involving representatives from the six confederations and asked it to produce an acceptable plan before a scheduled FIFA Council meeting in March in Miami.At the last summit, in Morocco, Infantino expressed frustration to the officials who declined to take part in the vote for his plans, according to multiple people present at the meeting.“As part of this discussion, people are asked to give their feedback on a series of proposals and, as in any democratic consultation process, every member can express its opinion freely,” FIFA said in a statement. “The feedback received will be fed back to the Council together with the results of the other consultation platforms.”FIFA’s task force for the two tournaments will hold its next meeting on Feb. 21 in Rio de Janeiro. As tensions grow, however, there is a chance that European executives will not attend, according to a person familiar with the continental leaders’ plans.UEFA declined to comment. The organization has been seeking the support of European clubs and leagues to oppose Infantino’s proposals. At the last two meetings, Ceferin has arrived armed with signed letters of opposition from The European Club Association, a union of the continent’s top clubs, and a separate group representing the continent’s domestic leagues.The proposals to expand the Club World Cup and to create a new global Nations League similar to the recently created UEFA version largely have the backing of officials from South America, Africa and Asia — likely enough to win a vote should Infantino choose to take one at the Miami meeting. Any such move would exacerbate the growing rift with Europe, however, and potentially lead to a larger crisis if top clubs and leading nations from UEFA refuse to participate in the new FIFA-controlled tournaments.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanAs the N.F.L. officially turned its calendar to the 2019 season on Wednesday, football in New York found itself dramatically revamped. Odell Beckham Jr., the outrageous wide receiver, was no longer with the Giants, and Le’Veon Bell, the ultra-versatile running back, had agreed to a deal with the Jets.Those moves qualified as the headliners of the league’s off-season movement so far, but a number of teams have already made grand attempts to rework their rosters.Coming off a two-year stretch in which the Browns went 1-31, they improved to 7-8-1 in 2018 and the team blossomed in the second half. Trying to keep that momentum, Cleveland traded for Beckham, who is arguably the league’s most talented wide receiver. He and his former Lousiana State University teammate Jarvis Landry will most likely become one of the most productive wide receiver duos in the N.F.L., helping to unlock the enormous potential of quarterback Baker Mayfield in an offense designed by Freddie Kitchens, the team’s first-year head coach.The Browns, not content to improve just on offense, added two impressive players on the defensive line in Sheldon Richardson and Olivier Vernon. Richardson, who has reportedly agreed to a three-year deal with $21.5 million in guaranteed money, will solidify the interior of the line, while Vernon, who was acquired in a trade with the Giants for guard Kevin Zeitler, will provide an edge rusher to complement Myles Garrett.Giving up Zeitler, a talented but expensive lineman, to acquire Vernon was a significant cost, but the Browns still seem greatly improved.Bell has a chance to be something truly special for the Jets. He is a dynamic back unlike any the team has seen since Curtis Martin, and Bell comes over on a deal that is nowhere near as rich as what the 27-year-old running back had hoped for when his salary stalemate with Pittsburgh began last year.If the team had just added Bell — and relied on improvement from quarterback Sam Darnold in his second year — the Jets could have expected a bump up from last year’s 4-12 record. But the Jets apparently have also traded for Kelechi Osemele, a Pro Bowl guard, and agreed to contract terms with the Pro Bowl linebacker C.J. Mosley and the reliable young receiver Jamison Crowder, who will probably play out of the slot. The transactions have been reported by multiple news outlets but not yet announced by the team.The Jets had a long way to go to get back to respectability, but their new coach, Adam Gase, is about to have a lot more talent on his roster than he did a week ago. And after gaining Bell in what should still be his prime, the Jets have an opportunity to be a contender in the near future if they keep building.Last year the Raiders repeatedly denied that they were tanking for draft position, even as they traded the outstanding Khalil Mack and Amari Cooper for draft picks. Regardless of their motivation in those moves, they are clearly trying to build now. The team fleeced Pittsburgh in a deal for Antonio Brown, the star wide receiver, in which the Raiders gave up just two mid-round picks. In moves the team has yet to officially announce, they have reportedly invested a great deal of money in the free agents Trent Brown, Tyrell Williams and Lamarcus Joyner.Whether or not these other moves make the Raiders appreciably better is an open question.Trent Brown, who just won a Super Bowl with New England, is a mammoth left tackle (6 feet 8 inches, 380 pounds). He reportedly got $36.8 million in guaranteed money from Oakland, but other than last season, he had been considered mostly a disappointment. Joyner, who was reportedly guaranteed $16.7 million, blossomed under Wade Phillips’s direction last year with the Rams but has had an uneven career. And Williams, who was a good vertical threat as the No. 2 wide receiver for the Chargers, will need to up his production if he wants to serve as a proper complement to Brown.The Bills did a lot. Some of the team’s acquisitions are fairly minor — running back Frank Gore, 36 in May and entering his 15th season, is inspiring but unlikely to cause a huge impact. But it will be worth watching how the addition of the free agent wide receivers John Brown and Cole Beasley affects second-year quarterback Josh Allen.Allen, as has been well documented, loves to throw deep, and Brown, who was comically underutilized in Baltimore once Lamar Jackson took over at quarterback, is one of the fleetest vertical threats in the game. With Brown as the No. 1 receiver and Beasley in the slot, all Buffalo needs is for Zay Jones or Robert Foster to develop into a reliable No. 2 receiver and Allen, who creates more disruption with his running than some might assume, will be able to truly chuck the ball.In terrible news for the writing room of NBC’s “The Good Place,” Jacksonville moved on from Blake Bortles, a quarterback who occasionally shined on the team’s path to the A.F.C. championship game two years ago but struggled last season. In his place, the Jaguars added the far more reliable Nick Foles, who went from contemplating retirement during the 2015 season to winning a Super Bowl two years later.Foles, whose deal includes more than $50 million in guarantees, is hardly a sure thing to live up to his contract. He has had periods of dramatic ebb and flow and has not started more than 11 games in a season at any point in his seven-season career.Of more concern for Jacksonville is the loss of both Malik Jackson and Tashaun Gipson on defense. The team released both veterans for salary cap reasons, and with Foles now on the books, it is questionable if the Jaguars will be able to afford contract extensions for other defensive stars like Jalen Ramsey and Yannick Ngakoue.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonIn a stunning, audacious move, the Giants on Tuesday traded wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., the team’s most popular and talented player, to the Cleveland Browns for safety Jabrill Peppers and the Browns’ first and third round choices in next month’s college draft.The deal, which cannot be completed until the new league year begins on Wednesday, was confirmed by persons with knowledge of the trade who were not authorized to discuss it.It will be one of the biggest trades in the 94-year history of the typically staid Giants franchise and may prove to be the most controversial. Beckham’s spectacular acrobatic catches, stirring touchdown runs and provocative end zone dances, made him a prominent and occasionally polarizing figure in New York and throughout the N.F.L.[Le’Veon Bell to Join Jets After Sitting Out Season]Nonetheless, since his rookie year in 2014, Beckham’s career, which has already included three Pro Bowl selections, was viewed as incandescent and the Giants seemed to recognize that potential by rewarding Beckham with a five-year, $90 million contract extension last year that made him the league’s highest paid wide receiver.But Beckham’s tenure with the Giants grew troubled soon after the contract was finalized, as he appeared to express displeasure with the spiraling, downward direction of the team in a television interview. Rumors began to circulate that the Giants, who have had only one winning season since 2012, were willing to listen to trade offers for Beckham.The Giants brain trust repeatedly denied Beckham was being shopped to other teams. Late last year and again in recent weeks, the Giants general manager Dave Gettleman insisted that the Giants “didn’t sign Odell to trade him.”Gettleman added: “That’s all I need to say about that.”But Tuesday night the trade with Cleveland was finalized. The Giants will get the 17th overall pick in the draft — they already own the No. 6 pick — along with a third-rounder (No. 95 overall). Peppers, a native of New Jersey and the Browns’ first round choice in 2017, has one interception in 29 games for Cleveland, with 96 solo tackles.The strongest part of Peppers’s skill set is tackling near the line of scrimmage, which makes him similar to Landon Collins, the safety the Giants allowed to enter free agency a few days ago. Collins, however, is a three-time Pro Bowler who agreed to a six-year contract worth $$84 million, $44.5 million of which is guaranteed, with the Washington Redskins.Beckham, 26, leaves the Giants with 390 receptions for 5,476 yards and 44 touchdowns in 59 games. He has averaged 14 yards per catch and ranks in the top five of several N.F.L. receiving categories when compared to his contemporaries in the last five seasons — and that’s after missing 16 games during two seasons because of a broken ankle and a serious hamstring strain.The trade of Beckham will put added scrutiny on the Giants decision-making in next month’s draft and during the free agency period. Beckham’s departure seems a strong indication that the team is girding for a period of rebuilding and will no longer be chasing a playoff berth in 2019, or perhaps even beyond next season. But the team’s continued support for 38-year-old quarterback Eli Manning runs counter to that thinking.The Giants face other challenges, too. Beckham will still count $16 million against the team’s salary cap next season and the roster lacks productive N.F.L. caliber players at multiple pivotal positions both on offense and defense.For the last several months, the Giants conceded they would listen to trade offers for Beckham but indicated it would take some combination of high draft picks and a top N.F.L. starter to lure Beckham away from the Giants.The Giants received neither in Tuesday’s trade.For the long-suffering Browns, the trade is a thunderbolt transaction that will galvanize the franchise, which has never won a Super Bowl. Cleveland not only becomes an overnight playoff candidate, it is a contender to win the rugged A.F.C. North division.Behind quarterback Baker Mayfield, the first overall pick of the 2018 college draft, the Browns were a startling 7-8-1 last season and benefited from a rejuvenated offense built around young stars. Coach Freddie Kitchens, whose background is as an offensive coach, will now have one of the top weapons in the N.F.L. to complement second-year running back Nick Chubb and veteran wide receiver Jarvis Landry, who is Beckham’s former college teammate at Louisiana State. Beckham and Landry are also good friends.As for the Giants, they have no wide receivers under contract beyond next season and that includes the new ace of the receiving corps, Sterling Shepard, a three-year veteran with 30 fewer touchdown receptions than Beckham.Late Tuesday night, Beckham seemed prepared to move on from the team that drafted him with the 12th pick five years ago. Speaking with the NFL Network after what he described as a brief conversation with Gettleman, Beckham said: “At this point I have no idea what to think. I’m trying to process it right now.” Beckham added that leaving the Giants was, “bittersweet, but it is what it is. It’s life.”An earlier version of this article misstated the terms of Landon Collins’s contract with the Washington Redskins. It is a six-year deal worth $84 million — not three years worth $45 million, which is the guaranteed portion of the contract.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — Dr. Bernice A. King, the youngest child of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King, was brought out to midfield for the coin toss before Super Bowl LIII. She was joined by two other titanic civil rights leaders, Ambassador Andrew Young and Representative John Lewis.Before the game began, the N.F.L. also played a video in the stadium that included images of Dr. King and other civil rights leaders, interspersed with images of N.F.L. players doing charity work.On television, CBS ran a public service announcement that showed Commissioner Roger Goodell and other league executives touring the Ebenezer Baptist Church and other landmarks associated with Martin Luther King Jr.For the many Super Bowl viewers who do not closely follow the league, and perhaps many who do, such imagery probably came across as proper and right for a game played in Atlanta, known as the cradle of the civil rights movement.Yet it underscored something else: a league still struggling with race and seeking a balance between fans and players who find no reason to talk about it and those who find it front and center in a simmering controversy over a player who has not played a down since the 2016 season.The presence of the civil rights leaders did not seem to win over supporters of the player, Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who in 2016 began taking a knee during the national anthem to protest racism and police brutality against people of color and has not played a down since that season.Even before the game, many resolved not to watch, including the film director Ava DuVernay, who accused the N.F.L. of “racist treatment of @Kaepernick7” and lamented an “ongoing disregard for the health + well-being of players.”And the presence of the civil rights leaders was met with confusion, and in some cases derision, by those who feel Kaepernick has been blackballed.“Ummmm why are Bernice King, John Lewis, and Andrew Young standing on this field giving the N.F.L. cover,” wrote the voting rights advocate Kat Calvin.Yet the overture spoke to an effort by the N.F.L. to thread the needle between appeasing conservative fans — there were military flyovers and giant flags and shout-outs to war veterans — and addressing the questions and criticism it has received over racial issues.It has undertaken a public relations move to line up African-American figures who either have objected to Kaepernick’s form of protest or are willing to look past it. Their message, after all, has long been about bridge-building and healing.“My mission is #JusticeForAll,’’ Ms. King wrote on Twitter after the coin toss. “Humanity is turning the tide and our efforts must include bridge builders, strategic negotiators and ambassadors.”In the end, Gladys Knight, who had taken aim at Kaepernick for kneeling during the song, sung the national anthem. No players knelt, the moment far less weighted than it has been in the past.As Knight sang the anthem, the Air Force Thunderbirds flew over Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where the retractable roof was opened for the occasion. During a timeout in the third quarter, military veterans who won the Medal of Honor were shown on the stadium scoreboard and given a standing ovation. Military veterans in the stadium were encouraged to stand as well.Still, the anthem issue promises to take another twist in the off season.In the coming months, Kaepernick’s grievance accusing the league of colluding to keep him off a team will be ruled on by an arbitrator hearing the case.Win or lose, the league could find itself on the defensive among fans it has been courting with its civil rights overtures.If the league wins its case, supporters of Kaepernick may doubt the outcome — a string of lesser quarterbacks statistically have found teams. If the league loses, a conventional wisdom would be validated and the league would be in the embarrassing position of paying millions dollars to a player who has not suited up since 2016.Kaepernick for his part has spent the past several days posting images on social media of celebrities — LeBron James, among them — supporting him.The one thing the league seems certain to count on is that not many players kneel at all these days.This has been a season of get back to football. Even though the Super Bowl game lacked the thrill of recent nail-biters — the Patriots beat the Rams, 13-3, the lowest-scoring Super Bowl ever — the N.F.L. can take the lack of drama, in the game and off, as a sign of regaining its footing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe N.F.L. and its players association defended their policy of random drug testing of the league’s players on Wednesday after Carolina Panthers safety Eric Reid suggested that he had been subjected to a curiously high number of them this season.Reid, who joined the Panthers in Week 4, noted in December that he had been selected for a drug test for the seventh time this season. Ten players from each team are selected for testing each week, according to the league’s drug policy, and Yahoo Sports reported that the chance a single player would be chosen for so many tests randomly was about 1 in 500.Number 7... ”Random” pic.twitter.com/6HkxXCZhQP“I’ve been here 11 weeks, I’ve been drug-tested seven times,” Reid told reporters. “That has to be statistically impossible. I’m not a mathematician, but there’s no way that’s random.”In a joint statement, the league and players union said Wednesday that the accusation that Reid had been subjected to an inordinate number of tests deliberately had been investigated by the administrator of the drug policy and “that Mr. Reid’s tests were randomly generated via computer algorithm and that his selection for testing was normal.”“There is no evidence of targeting or any other impropriety with respect to his selection for testing,” the joint statement said.Reid has been a close ally of his former 49ers teammate Colin Kaepernick and has backed protests over police brutality and racism, kneeling during the national anthem throughout the season. He filed a grievance against the N.F.L. in the off-season when he had few takers as a free agent. The Panthers eventually signed him in late September.His grievance is due to be heard in the coming off season.“I guess there was something about some mathematician saying it’s highly improbable, but definitely possible,” Carolina Coach Ron Rivera said last month. “But I’ll say this: If my name came up that many times, I’d buy a lottery ticket.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Kevin ArmstrongWhen the Mets hired Brodie Van Wagenen as their new general manager last October, they wholly embraced, even promoted, his status as an unconventional outsider — a converted player agent. The team made a similarly unorthodox addition on Tuesday, announcing that Jessica Mendoza, a baseball analyst for ESPN, would join the team’s front office as a baseball operations adviser to Van Wagenen.The Mets said Mendoza, a softball gold medalist in the 2004 Olympic Games who joined ESPN in 2007, would focus on player evaluation, roster construction, and health and performance. But in noting that Mendoza also would retain her high-profile role on “Sunday Night Baseball” telecasts, the announcement gave a new dimension to questions about objectivity for ESPN. The network has long covered sports while also paying leagues billions of dollars each year to air them, and it has increasingly seen its own employees blur the lines between covering and participating in sports.Van Wagenen said at a news conference Tuesday morning that hiring Mendoza furthered the team’s efforts to shake up the way it does business.“I was an outside-the-box hire,” Van Wagenen said. “I’ve been a believer that you need to get new voices and fresh perspectives in any room, especially when you are making decisions.”Mendoza, 38, has a sterling history in softball and baseball. She was one of the best college softball players ever, and later won a gold medal at the 2004 Athens Games and a silver in 2008. She has been with ESPN for about 12 years and became a color analyst on “Sunday Night Baseball” — the network’s flagship baseball program — in 2016.While Mendoza will evaluate players and provide input on roster construction, Van Wagenen said she would be especially influential in the areas of health and performance and technology. He also said she would work for the Mets during baseball’s annual general manager and winter meetings in the off-season, suggesting her role would be more consequential than those of others — including the ex-Yankee Alex Rodriguez — who are both broadcasters and advisers for teams.Mendoza’s deal with the Mets includes a confidentiality agreement, Van Wagenen said, adding that she would not share on her broadcast “anything she gleans from our operation.” She also will not be allowed to share with the Mets anything she learns about other teams through her ESPN duties. Mendoza will be in the Mets’ training camp in Port St. Lucie, Fla., on Friday.ESPN has long had a revolving door between the playing fields and the broadcast booth. Just last week, Jason Witten left “Monday Night Football” to return to his N.F.L. playing career, one year after Jon Gruden did the same to return to coaching.Still, Mendoza’s hire is different. She is perhaps ESPN’s highest-profile baseball voice, one of the network’s most important employees on its most important baseball broadcast. She is currently scheduled to be in the booth for a June game between the Mets and Atlanta Braves.ESPN shrugged off suggestions of conflict of interest, and argued that Mendoza was far from the first baseball broadcaster to navigate such concerns. “There are numerous examples across networks of these type of arrangements where commentators work closely with teams, and we will be fully transparent about Jessica’s relationship with the Mets,” said Josh Krulewitz, an ESPN spokesman. “We have complete faith in her ability as a leading M.L.B. voice for ESPN.”ESPN’s relationship with baseball is especially intimate. The network also employs Rodriguez, who is a special adviser for the Yankees, and David Ross, a special assistant for the Cubs. On Tuesday, ESPN also announced that the Yankees pitcher C. C. Sabathia would contribute to various ESPN television shows this season, mostly in coverage of sports other than baseball.Other networks have similar situations: The retired baseball players Frank Thomas and David Ortiz, who both work for Fox, also have roles with their old teams. But Van Wagenen’s insistence that Mendoza would have input on important baseball decisions seems to set her apart from other broadcasters’ or ex-players’ roles as “special advisers,” a role that tends to be more ceremonial than substantive. Ross and Rodriguez are not listed as part of the front office on their respective teams’ websites, and Thomas is an adviser for business operations. When Ortiz’s role was announced, he focused on his duties of recruiting free agents and making community appearances.Like ESPN, the Mets are accustomed to the revolving door in the baseball industry. Van Wagenen was hired from Creative Artists Agency, where he represented Mets stars like Jacob deGrom and Yoenis Cespedes. In taking the job, Van Wagenen divested himself from his stake in C.A.A., and he has said that he will recuse himself from any contract negotiations with past clients, including deGrom. If that wasn’t confusing enough, Mendoza is also represented by C.A.A. And then there’s Tim Tebow, working his way up through the Mets’ minor-league ranks while remaining with ESPN as a college football analyst.Kevin Draper reported from New York, and Kevin Armstrong from Port St. Lucie, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Rams and the Chiefs were the darlings of the league this season, but can they beat the Saints and the Patriots to get to the Super Bowl?By Benjamin HoffmanFor all the excitement created by the N.F.L.’s offensive fireworks this season, the league could be accused of being predictable. From roughly Week 5 forward, the Rams, the Saints and the Chiefs were considered favorites to get to this point. And while it was a down season for the Patriots, relatively speaking, it will probably be several years after Tom Brady’s retirement before people stop assuming he will find a way into the A.F.C. championship game.So after all those yards and touchdowns, it comes down to the top four offenses battling to reach the Super Bowl. Four elite quarterbacks, four teams with terrific running games and four head coaches who seem more than capable of getting the most out of their players.There will almost certainly be a great deal of scoring in both games, but the results could hinge on a key takeaway or a key pressure from one of the less-heralded defenses. And whichever teams eke out a win will meet in Atlanta two weeks later in Super Bowl LIII. Here are our predictions for how the conference championships will sort out, both in terms of who will win and who will win against the spread.Last week’s record against the spread: 2-2Playoff record against the spread: 4-3-1N.F.C.3:05 p.m., FoxSomehow the Week 9 showdown between Los Angeles and New Orleans did not receive the hype or the praise of the Rams’ thrilling win against Kansas City in Week 11, but it was not for a lack of excitement or importance. The teams combined for 80 points and 970 yards of offense, and the Saints ended the Rams’ undefeated start to the season.While that result essentially decided home-field advantage for this game, and there are certainly aspects of that game that could serve as a preview for this one, the Rams’ roster gained two important additions after that day: Aqib Talib and C.J. Anderson.First and foremost is Talib, the Pro Bowl cornerback who was among the Rams’ most prominent acquisitions last off-season. He injured his ankle in Week 3, had an operation and did not return until Week 13. Talib, 32, immediately took the team’s secondary from awful to adequate.On top of that, Los Angeles has gotten a boost in the last three games from Anderson, a running back who never quite reached his potential in Denver, and spent this season on three teams. He appears to have found a home as a second running option alongside Todd Gurley, helping spare Gurley’s balky knee from abuse and providing a different look at the position.Those additions level the playing field considerably, but there are plenty of reasons the Saints were the N.F.C.’s top team in the regular season, and all of them hold true. Quarterback Drew Brees is still firing on all cylinders. The team’s running game is among the best — and the most versatile — in the entire N.F.L. Michael Thomas is among the game’s most talented wide receivers. And the New Orleans defense does a terrific job of stopping the run.In what should be a fantastic game between evenly matched teams, the deciding factor could be which overmatched secondary performs better. There will be a lot of yardage regardless, but if Talib can limit Thomas, the opportunity is there for the Rams to come away with a road upset and their first trip to the Super Bowl since the 2001 season.Pick to win: RamsPick against the spread: Rams +3.5A.F.C.6:40 p.m., CBSTom Brady and the rest of the Patriots seem to believe that the football world has lost faith in them. It’s true that many people picked the Chargers to win last week — though the Patriots were officially 4-point favorites in the game — but even the most ardent believers in Los Angeles’s chances seemed aware that the combination of Brady, Bill Belichick and Foxborough could easily lead to a win for New England. Fast-forward one week, and the Patriots are underdogs not just in spirit but also in reality against a team that spent most of the season with people assuming it would reach the Super Bowl. The faith in quarterback Patrick Mahomes came quickly, but it was also warranted, as he followed his 5,097-yard, 50-touchdown regular season by easily dispatching the Indianapolis Colts in his playoff debut last weekend.When the Patriots and Chiefs met in Week 6, Mahomes had about as much success as a visiting young starter could expect in New England, throwing for 352 yards and four touchdowns. But he also threw a pair of interceptions and endured the first loss of his professional career. Of concern to the Patriots, however, is that Mahomes seemed to be figuring things out against them as the game went along. Kansas City outscored New England, 31-19, in the second half of that game, and Mahomes tied the score with just over three minutes to play by hitting Tyreek Hill for a 75-yard touchdown — only to have Brady march his team downfield for a game-winning, 28-yard field goal as time expired.Now the Chiefs get a turn to host, and Arrowhead Stadium should be nice and frigid, with temperatures expected to be in the low 20s. Last weekend, in the Chiefs’ win over Indianapolis, Coach Andy Reid compensated for the snow and cold by focusing on the run, and it worked: Four Kansas City players scored rushing touchdowns. The defense did its part by harassing Colts quarterback Andrew Luck into a poor game.This time, the Chiefs may want to focus on the pass. New England is vulnerable there, having allowed 3,943 passing yards this season and 29 touchdowns through the air, though the damage was mitigated by a decent number of interceptions. As Mahomes has proved repeatedly, he can take chances while still minimizing turnover risk, and if he can turn this game into a shootout, he has the advantage, thanks to his team’s superior skill players.This all adds up to Kansas City’s rightly being the favorite, with an extremely good shot of playing in the Super Bowl for the first time since Len Dawson led the Chiefs to a win over the Vikings in Super Bowl IV. Brady has every right to feel confident in his chances, based on the fact that things virtually always work out for him and his team. Chiefs fans have every right to be worried, based on their franchise’s playoff history, but if Mahomes is Mahomes, that will be enough to warrant Las Vegas’s faith in Kansas City. Pick to win: ChiefsPick against the spread: Chiefs -3.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterThe American Soybean Association takes issue with an editorial.To the Editor:“Will Mr. Trump Trade Away the Future?” (editorial, March 10) sets up soybeans as a scapegoat if the administration removes its tariffs under an initial deal that doesn’t resolve structural concerns with Chinese trade and business practices. To suggest that farmers are pushing the administration to accept a lesser deal is unfair.The American Soybean Association has been vocal that the retaliatory tariff imposed by China on imports of United States soybeans must be removed in any agreement. But we have also supported addressing long-term structural issues with China. We are skeptical of one-off commitments by China to buy American soybeans and have advocated for tariff and nontariff barriers to be removed so that we can compete on a level playing field.Long before China’s trade practices became an issue for the national media and a political football in Washington, American soybean farmers were working to establish a relationship with China’s livestock industry and government that has fostered greater interdependence between our two countries. Any agreement that dials back the current tariffs should not be criticized as a political concession to our industry. It should be recognized as a necessary step toward finding better balance in a difficult but essential trade relationship.Davie StephensClinton, Ky.The writer is president of the American Soybean Association. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleNote for Teachers: Join our Feb. 6 free webinar on teaching with New York Times-inspired writing prompts. Sign up here._________Are you a football fan? Will you be watching the Super Bowl this Sunday?If you are a fan, who do you think will win? Why?If you’re not, is there anything you enjoy about Super Bowl Sunday, whether it’s the Puppy Bowl, the halftime show, the advertisements or even just the snacks?In “Super Bowl LIII Will Have a Young Coach, an Old Coach and a Lot of Things in Between,” Victor Mather writes about the story lines for Sunday’s game. Here are some of them:Not every Super Bowl is super, and we’ll find out if this year’s edition fits the tag on Feb. 3. But we do know some of what is in store.One of those things is (no surprise) the New England Patriots, who will be appearing in their third consecutive Super Bowl and fourth in five years. The Rams will be the first team to represent Los Angeles in the game since 1984.Those are not the only records and oddities about Super Bowl LIII.Game of AgesSean McVay, who took over the Rams last season after a meteoric rise as an N.F.L. assistant, turns 33 this week, which will make him the youngest head coach in Super Bowl history. He breaks the record held by Mike Tomlin, who was 36 when his Pittsburgh Steelers won the big game in 2009.At 66, Bill Belichick will not be the oldest Super Bowl coach, as Marv Levy went to the game with the Bills at age 67 and 68. But Belichick could become the oldest winner, breaking the record held by Tom Coughlin, who was 65 when the Giants beat the Patriots in 2012.Game of Ages IITom Brady is 41 and will become the oldest Super Bowl starting quarterback. He breaks the record set by, well, Tom Brady last year.At 24, Jared Goff is not the youngest Super Bowl starter, but he’s not far off. Dan Marino was the youngest, at 23 years 127 days, and Ben Roethlisberger was just behind him at 23 years 340 days.By the NumberThe Roman numerals have reached LIII, or 53. You could also call it Super Bowl 110101 if you prefer binary numbers or Super Bowl 35 if hexadecimal is more your thing.It’s the first prime-number Super Bowl since XLVII (Ravens over 49ers, 34-31.)Among the athletes who have worn No. 53: Don Drysdale, Harry Carson, Artis Gilmore and Darryl Dawkins.DiversionPop band Maroon 5 and rappers Big Boi and Travis Scott will perform the halftime show. Up with People, which headlined the show four times, is still awaiting its first appearance since 1986.Gladys Knight will sing the national anthem, a year after Pink did the honors. Knight will join an odd mix of stars to carry out the duties, a list that includes Lady Gaga (2016), Billy Joel (1989 and 2007), Cher (1999), Kathie Lee Gifford (1995) and Al Hirt (1970).Gamblers are saying the anthem performance will last 1 minute 50 seconds. You can bet on it. Or on whether a player will kneel (5-1 against). Or if a fan runs on the field (15-1). Or the color of Adam Levine of Maroon 5’s shirt (Black is the favorite) or whether a Coke or Pepsi commercial will appear first, or — well, you get the idea.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Are you planning to watch Super Bowl LIII? If so, what are you most looking forward to — the game, the commercials, the parties or the halftime show? If not, why not?— If you’re a football fan, what do you think of the matchup of the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots? Who are you rooting for? Who do you think will win? What do you think will be the final score? Which players do you think will stand out and why?— Of the narratives outlined in the article, which story line is most compelling to you and why?— What do you think about the choice for this season’s Super Bowl halftime performers? If you could see anyone perform at the Super Bowl, whom would you want to see, and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Hoffman and Bill PenningtonIn the Year of Offense, the N.F.L.’s championship game didn’t have much. A dreary Super Bowl that featured a combined 14 punts ended with a sixth title for Tom Brady and the New England Patriots, who beat the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, on Sunday.As he has so many times, Rob Gronkowski was there when Tom Brady needed him most, picking up a pair of huge first downs on what proved to be the decisive drive in the Patriots’ victory.It was a year defined by offensive brilliance, but at Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium, the game turned into a defensive slugfest defined largely by the game’s punters.Neither team had reached the red zone until midway through the fourth quarter but Brady, looking to get something going, twice exploited a coverage mismatch on Gronkowski, completing passes of 18 and 29 yards to his big tight end, which set up Sony Michel’s 2-yard touchdown run that put New England up to stay.The throwback connection between quarterback and tight end proved to be too much for Los Angeles on a day when Coach Sean McVay’s highlight-reel offense was forced to punt on its first eight possessions of the game — and 9 times overall — and was limited to just 205 total yards.Brady finished the day having passed for 262 yards while Goff, who reached the Super Bowl in his third season, struggled the entire game and finished with 229 yards.Julian Edelman, with 10 catches for 141 yards, was named the game’s Most Valuable Player, completing his comeback from a devastating knee injury last year by winning his third career Super Bowl.“I’m pretty ecstatic,” Julian Edelman said in an on-field interview “I’m emotionally pooped. Mentally and physically pooped.”In what would prove to be a crushing blow to the Rams, the Patriots were able to follow up Sony Michel’s touchdown with a turnover, as Jared Goff was intercepted by Stephon Gilmore late in the fourth quarter, allowing New England to slow the game down and walk away with a victory.For Brady the win gave him a sixth Super Bowl ring, breaking a tie with the Hall of Fame defensive end Charles Haley for the most by an individual player, and it tied the Patriots with the Pittsburgh Steelers for the most by any team.Here’s how the Patriots’ won their sixth title: The Patriots just needed to chew up clock, and they did that and more, reeling off 72 yards on nine plays, taking up 3 minutes and 5 seconds, and increasing their lead with a 41-yard field goal by Stephen Gostkowski. They now lead 13-3 with 1:12 remaining in the game.The key plays on the drive included a 26-yard run by Sony and a 26-yard run by Rex Burkhead.The Rams will receive the ball, but down by 10 points with no timeouts they would need to score immediately, execute an onside kick, and then score again.Possibly inspired by New England’s touchdown, the Rams began racing down the field with a series of long plays, but after Jared Goff’s pass to Brandin Cooks just barely fell incomplete at the goal line, Goff tried to challenge the New England defense on a second consecutive play and he paid for it when Stephone Gilmore was easily able to step in front of the pass for an interception.The Patriots now have the lead and the ball with 4:17 remaining in the game.Bill Pennington: Tremendous anticipation by Stephon Gilmore on the interception. Goff tried to go to Cooks in the same spot as the previous play that nearly resulted in a touchdown, but Gilmore was staring at Goff the entire play — he all but turned his back and ignored Cooks. When Goff’s pass fluttered, Gilmore watched it into his hands the whole way.Tom Brady needed to get something going and Rob Gronkowski was happy to oblige. Two connections between the future Hall of Famers led to the game’s first touchdown, which was scored on a 2-yard run by Sony Michel. The Patriots now lead, 10-3.The drive started with Brady taking advantage of blown coverage by Samson Ebukam to set up an 18-yard catch by Gronkowski. Just three plays later, Brady went to Gronk again, this time for a 29-yard gain that ended with the supersized tight end sliding to a stop just 2 yards short of the end zone.From there it was fairly simple as Michel has been almost unstoppable at the goal line in the postseason and he went into the end zone easily.Bill Pennington: The Rams desperately need a sustained offensive drive. Their defense is exhausted.The Rams managed to have a nine-play drive generate just 23 yards as a result of penalties and Johnny Hekker punted for a ninth time. This game has surely been terrific for Hekker’s parents, as he is up to 417 punting yards, but for everyone else it has been remarkably frustrating to watch as neither team has been into the red zone yet.At this point it is seeming like the game will come down to a turnover generating points rather than either offense suddenly waking up, though with either squad points could suddenly accumulate quickly.If you like punters, this game is great.After the Patriots picked up a first down by way of a defensive holding penalty, they got a second on an entertaining 19-yard run by Sony Michel in which the rookie running back bounced off several defenders before being brought down.Michel picked up another 6 yards on a pair of carries to close out the third quarter, and then on the first play of the fourth quarter, Tom Brady’s pass attempt to James White fell incomplete, setting up yet another punt.There have been 12 punts so far.Greg Zeurlein just barely lived up to his Legatron nickname, tying the game with a 53-yard field goal that was not one of his signature booming kicks but did enough to get over the crossbar. The game is now tied, 3-3.The Rams offense had gotten the ball back quickly thanks to some terrific defensive work from Marcus Peters, and they picked up a first down with a short throw to Josh Reynolds and a run by C.J. Anderson.Encouraged by the conversion, Jared Goff threw deep to Brandin Cooks for a picture-perfect 16-yard gain.A run by Anderson went for 3 yards, Goff threw an incomplete pass off Anderson’s back side to avoid a sack, and on 3rd-and-7, but Goff once again rocketed a ball downfield, connecting with Robert Woods for an 18-yard gain.Goff threw incomplete to Cooks in the end zone, with Jason McCourty making a nice play to prevent the touchdown, but Goff picked up 3 yards on second down with a short pass to Anderson. On 3rd-and-7, Goff was absolutely demolished by Dont’a Hightower for a 9-yard loss that forced the field goal attempt.While the sack of Goff was a bit demoralizing, the young quarterback looked far more confident on this drive.The Rams had some excitement, but not the kind they wanted, narrowly avoiding a safety on a drive that started on their own 2-yard line.The Rams got a little breathing room to start the drive with a pair of 2-yard runs by Todd Gurley. On 3rd-and-6 from the Rams’ 6-yard line, Jared Goff threw wildly to his right to avoid a safety, with the pass falling incomplete.Johnny Hekker came out for his eighth punt and proceeded to set a Super Bowl record with a 65-yard punt that was aided by a remarkably friendly bounce.Hekker is up to 8 punts for 378 yards and has been a huge help in keeping Los Angeles from falling further behind in this game.Marcus Peters broke up a third-down pass intended for Julian Edelman, forcing New England to punt on its first offensive play of the second half.The Patriots had started the drive on their own 8-yard line after a terrific punt by Johnny Hekker, but they were able to pick up a huge 27-yard gain by Edelman on a short pass from Tom Brady. Once again, Los Angeles took the blow in stride and continued to play tight defense.Edelman is up to 8 catches for 120 yards early in the third quarter, but the Patriots have announced that their defense will be short-handed the rest of the way, as Patrick Chung is officially out with an arm injury.Todd Gurley is here, but even that wasn’t enough to prevent yet another Rams punt to start the second half.The star running back took a second down handoff and raced through the New England defense for a 16-yard gain. He followed up that burst with two runs that combined for 5 yards, but on 3rd-and-5 Jared Goff’s pass to Brandin Cooks was knocked to the ground by Stephon Gilmore.Johnny Hekker came out yet again, punting for the seventh time today.Patrick Chung, the Patriots’ veteran safety, had to come out of the game after appearing to break his right arm on Gurley’s second run of the drive. He was replaced by Duron Harmon.After an almost unwatchable first half, this game can easily be taken over by either team in the second half.For the Rams, the key will be finding a way to run the ball. Todd Gurley has been almost entirely absent with no explanation, and he and C.J. Anderson have combined for just 20 yards on seven carries. That has let New England’s defenders pin their ears back and go after Jared Goff on every play. The third-year quarterback has not responded well, completing 5 of his 12 passes, with 18 of his 52 yards coming on a pass to Robert Woods that very likely was an incompletion.In the second half, Goff needs to get back to his confident downfield throws, letting Brandin Cooks and Robert Woods break off some big plays, and if the running game can’t help establish that room, Goff will simply have to get the ball out faster.For the Patriots, running the ball more would help, but they could improve simply by having the Rams regress to the mean on defense. Marcus Peters, Aqib Talib and Nickell Robey-Coleman have all played great games, thanks in part to the Rams putting pressure on Brady, but the Los Angeles defense had to spend nearly 20 minutes on the field in the first half, and both Peters and Robey-Coleman are prone to mistakes if they are challenged repeatedly.The Rams definitely qualify as more frustrated as they failed to score any points despite generating an interception, a missed field goal and a turnover on downs, but with how close New England has tended to stay to their opponents in Super Bowls, the missed field goal by Stephen Gostkowski in the first quarter could easily come back to haunt New England.After a lackluster first half to the Super Bowl, halftime show headliner Maroon 5 took the stage — a giant ‘M’ stretching 40 yards across the field — to a barrage of fireworks and flames. Unfortunately the 100 million fans at home weren’t given a respite from the game’s mediocrity.The highlight of the show came about halfway through, when a drum line and choir joined Maroon 5 lead singer Adam Levine to belt out the hit “Girls Like You.” (At home, the highlight for many was the SpongeBob SquarePants interlude.)In theory, Travis Scott and Big Boi were Maroon 5’s co-stars. Scott rapped “Sicko Mode” — heavily censored on television — early in the show, and Big Boi appeared late in a classic car, wearing a fur jacket. He sang the Outkast hit “The Way You Move” with Levine playing the role of Andre 3000.In practice they only sang one song a piece. Levine even joined Big Boi, unfortunately playing the role of Big Boi’s Outkast co-star, Andre 3000.It was truly the Adam Levine show, as he ran through all of Maroon 5’s hits: “Harder to Breathe,” “This Love,” “She Will Be Loved” and finally ending the show with “Sugar.” Levine grew progressively less clothed throughout the 15-minute show, and as he sang the final bar of “Sugar” he was shirtless, with flames crackling all around him.With the Super Bowl in Atlanta, the N.F.L. had a surfeit of local musicians to choose from for the halftime show: Outkast, T.I., Lil Jon, Future, 2 Chainz and Migos. The list goes on and on.It seems quite telling of something that they chose Maroon 5. — Kevin DraperThe first half was a mess of punts and offensive ineptitude, with neither team looking like the powerhouses they had been throughout the playoffs.It’s the lowest first-half score since Super Bowl IX, when the Steelers led the Vikings, 2-0, at the half.The Rams defense has played better than anyone could have predicted, holding the Patriots to just 3 points and repeatedly stopping promising drives with tenacious pass defense and occasional bursts of interior pressure. But that still added up to Los Angeles being down at halftime thanks to a horrendous effort from the Rams’ offense, with all six Rams drives ending in punts.The Rams offense generated just 57 yards in the first half, with Jared Goff dealing with a great deal of pressure and not being able to get anything going, which is at least partially a result of Los Angeles not being able to establish the run at all behind Todd Gurley and C.J. Anderson.Tom Brady threw for 160 yards in the half, repeatedly picking up first downs to Julian Edelman, but thus far he has been almost entirely stymied by the Rams’ defense which has clearly made a point of delivering hard hits and not being discouraged despite the occasional Edelman outbursts.The stars of the game, if anyone qualifies, are Edelman, who has 93 receiving yards, and Johnny Hekker, who has punted for 267 yards.Bill Pennington: In three postseason games this year, Bill Belichick’s Patriots have now given up 7 points. That’s against some pretty decent competition: Chargers, Chiefs and Rams.Tom Brady’s throw to Rob Gronkowski on a 4th-and-1 from the Rams’ 32-yard line led to an unexpected turnover on downs, ending another promising New England drive.Brady had started the drive with an 11-yard pass to Julian Edelman in which Edelman ran over Aqib Talib to secure the first down.After a short run by Rex Burkhead, Edelman picked up another first down, this one with a 9-yard catch-and-run in which he was able to get to the edge to secure an extra yard or two.The Patriots picked up another first down a few plays later thanks to the Rams having 12 men on the field, but after Brady threw incomplete on consecutive passes he found himself with a 3rd-and-10, and his pass to Patterson fell just short of converting when Marcus Peters knocked Patterson down just short of the marker.That set up the 4th down play in which Gronkowski could not quite get to Brady’s pass.Bill Pennington: Jared Goff is rushing his throws, out of sync in the pocket. The Rams ought to take a page out of the Patriots’ playbook and settle for some shorter throws. Getting the ball out of Goff’s hand quicker might yield a couple completions and help with his confidence and sense of timing in the pocket.The Rams, who averaged 32.9 points a game this season, have had the ball five times and they have punted five times.Todd Gurley was finally back on the field, which seemed like it could be a morale boost for Los Angeles, and he picked up 8 yards on a pair of rushing plays to start the drive. On 3rd-and-2, Jared Goff rolled out after a play-action fake, avoided one sack, but then was knocked backward for a 14-yard loss thanks to terrific pressure from Kyle Van Noy.Johnny Hekker has already punted for 209 yards.The Rams offense could not answer the Patriots’ score, going 23 yards on 5 plays, giving the ball back to New England with a punt.It had briefly looked like the Los Angeles offense had woken up when Jared Goff found Robert Woods on the sideline for an 18-yard gain that may have benefited from a bad call, as Woods did not clearly get both feet down. New England held strong after the play, allowing a 3-yard pass, knocking C.J. Anderson back for a 3-yard loss, and then playing great defense on Josh Reynolds on a third-down pass that fell incomplete.Los Angeles has had absolutely no offensive rhythm in this game while their defense has been far more impressive.Stephen Gostkowski connected on a 42-yard field goal attempt, putting the Patriots up 3-0 with 10:29 left in the first half.The scoring drive was set up as a result of a crucial third down reception by Julian Edelman — no surprise there — as he turned a 3rd-and-1 into a 25-yard gain.New England struggled after that connection, failing to convert a first down even after Tom Brady found Rob Gronkowski on a short pass, but they had gotten close enough for Gostkowski to hit fairly easily, making up for his miss earlier in the game.The teams punted on consecutive drives, but the Rams made a defensive statement on their last stop of the first quarter, putting some real pressure on Tom Brady while also dealing with some long gains from New England’s receivers.The quarter closed in a scoreless tie, with neither team threatening beyond Stephen Gostkowski’s missed field goal attempt, but Los Angeles has to be encouraged after John Franklin-Myers produced a strip-sack, Marcus Peters very nearly intercepted a pass, and Aaron Donald forced an incompletion as he whipped Brady to the ground, a play that led to New England’s first punt.The Rams have yet to do anything on offense in this game, but they have an interception, they are getting to Brady, and they have endured a few of Julian Edelman’s signature third-down conversions without giving up a score.Bill Pennington: The Patriots ran twice as many plays as the Rams in the first quarter. Rams had only one first down and were 0-for-3 on third down. The Rams defense is playing with a lot of energy and fire but the offense looks lifeless and uncertain.New England had a chance to go up 3-0 but Stephen Gostkowski missed wide-left on a 46-yard field goal attempt.The Patriots had started the drive on their own 12-yard line, but got into their typical rhythm, executing a series of short plays that consistently moved the chains. The Rams twice had huge defensive opportunities slip away from them, once when Julian Edelman ripped off an 11-yard catch-and-run on 3rd-and-9, and once when Nickell Robey Coleman’s crushing hit of Rex Burkhead on a 2nd-and-14 was determined to be a defenseless receiver violation and an automatic first down.A nice play-action fake following the penalty led to a 19-yard pass to Rob Gronkowski, but it was followed by a run attempt by Rex Burkhead that went for 2 yard, a deep pass attempt to Chris Hogan that fell incomplete in the end zone, and a run by James White that went for 3, leading to Gostkowski’s ill-fated field goal attempt.As a result of what appeared to be communication issues, New England was forced to use two of its timeouts on this drive.Bill Pennington: The Patriots haven’t scored but if the Rams secondary doesn’t move closer to the line of scrimmage and tighten up its coverage, it’s going to be a long day for them. Brady will take those throws underneath all day long.Gostkowski had not missed a kick in his last five games including the playoffs. But he did miss five of 32 field goal attempts in the regular season and one extra point try.The Patriots were driving down the field fairly easily, picking up a pair of first downs on three consecutive runs, but Nickell Robey-Coleman, the defensive back who committed the controversial pass interference in the N.F.C. championship, was able to tip away a pass attempt to Chris Hogan, leading to an interception by Cory Littleton. Absolutely a huge turnover on a drive where the Patriots looked to be marching their way to a first quarter score.The Rams managed just two yards on their first two offensive plays, with a 2-yard run by Todd Gurley and an incomplete pass by Jared Goff. On 3rd-and-8, Goff tried to hit Josh Reynolds on a crossing route but the team’s third wide receiver could not handle the pass and it fell incomplete, leading to a Johnny Hekker punt.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherPatriots owner Robert K. Kraft’s arraignment on charges of soliciting prostitution has been moved a day later, to March 28, court papers said on Thursday, and will no longer overlap with the N.F.L. annual meetings.Despite an all-capital warning on the document saying, “The defendant must be present at this hearing,” a spokeswoman for the Palm Beach County clerk’s office clarified that Mr. Kraft could still be represented at the hearing by his lawyers.Lawyers with experience representing clients in these kinds of cases in Palm Beach County, Fla., said that the “Notice of Hearing” document is considered a form letter and that lawyers represent most defendants at these hearings. Lawyers for Mr. Kraft did not immediately return calls seeking comment, but said in a statement to The Boston Globe that he would not appear at the hearing.The arraignment was originally scheduled for March 27, the final day of the league meetings in Phoenix. The hearing will be at a satellite court in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., not the main courthouse in downtown West Palm Beach.Mr. Kraft faces two first-degree misdemeanor charges, which include a penalty of up to one year in jail. He has pleaded not guilty and denies any criminal activity. The police say they have video of Mr. Kraft engaging in sex acts for money in two visits to a strip-mall massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla.He was one of two dozen men charged with soliciting prostitution at the massage parlor, which is about a 30-minute drive north of Palm Beach, where Mr. Kraft often visits. Their cases are part of a six-month investigation into what the police say is a human sex trafficking network operating out of nearly a dozen massage parlors in several counties in Florida.Prosecutors say that Mr. Kraft and the other men had no knowledge that the women working in the massage parlor had any connection to human sex trafficking. Still, the prosecutors increased the severity of the charges, from second-degree to first-degree misdemeanors, against Mr. Kraft and the other defendants.Prosecutors have said that first-time offenders like Mr. Kraft are unlikely to face jail time, but if convicted, they could face fines of up to $5,000 and 100 hours of community service.The court document offers instructions on obtaining a public defender, but Mr. Kraft is hardly likely to be in need of one.Though the case is a minor one by legal standards, Mr. Kraft has spared no expense, bringing in sought-after lawyers, including William A. Burck, who worked in the George W. Bush White House, and Jack Goldberger, who defended Jeffrey E. Epstein, the New York financier accused of trafficking underage girls for sex.A vigorous defense is unusual for a case of this kind. Most defendants take a plea deal, pay a fine and complete community service. They can later petition the court to expunge their record.Legals experts say that bringing in high-powered lawyers, especially ones from out of state, is unnecessary in misdemeanor cases like the one that Mr. Kraft is fighting. It is often more effective, they say, to hire lawyers who are familiar with state court judges and state attorneys, who are elected in Florida.“The problem with Kraft is the problem with famous people, which is they think if you bring in famous attorneys, they’ll do a better job,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., the son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a former prosecutor now in private practice. “In Florida, you don’t walk into state court with an out-of-town attorney. Who are you trying to impress?”Last week, Dave Aronberg, the state attorney overseeing the cases in Palm Beach County, said that all defendants would be treated equally, regardless of their wealth or fame.“Our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent,” Mr. Aronberg said last week. “No one gets special treatment in Palm Beach County.”Mr. Aronberg, a former assistant attorney general and a Florida state senator, is a Democrat who ran unopposed when he was re-elected in 2016.Mr. Kraft has long been associated with Democratic causes. But he is also close friends with President Trump, who has invited Mr. Kraft to fly on Air Force One and dine at his Palm Beach club, Mar-a-Lago.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinFacing a significant decline in the number of students playing high school football, the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association on Wednesday adopted new guidelines to sharply reduce the amount of contact allowed in practices and, in doing so, address concerns about player safety.The new rules, which the association said were the most restrictive in the country, limits the time that teams can engage in full-contact drills in practice to 15 minutes a week, down from the 90 allowed under the old rules. Preseason full-contact drills, previously unlimited, will be reduced to six total hours, including scrimmages.The existing ban on full contact in spring and summer practices in New Jersey remains in effect. New Jersey officials said that other states are considering similar restrictions as concerns about head injuries continue to grow.“I think this is a positive thing based on what we know now about player safety and the more education that we are all getting all the time about how to keep players healthy,” said Kevin Carty Jr., the coach at Hillsborough High School in central New Jersey.The New Jersey association said it implemented the rules on the recommendation of the New Jersey Football Coaches Association and Practice Like Pros, an organization that advocates the exact limits on practices that have now been adopted by New Jersey.Full contact is considered tackling that brings a player to the ground.Jesse Mez, an associate professor of neurology at Boston University and member of the school’s Alzheimer’s Center and CTE Center, applauded the new regulations. He said that there is “good evidence” to show a relationship between the dangers of repetitive impacts in football — and not just those involving concussions — and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative disease linked to repeated blows to the head. He said the exact nature of that relationship has not been fully measured.“I think there are better ways of playing team sports and getting exercise than repeatedly hitting your head,” Mez said. “But given the country’s interest in football and how much everybody loves it, if we are not going to stop playing, then we should reduce the amount of contact as much as we can.”Despite its risks, tackle football is still among the most popular sports for male youths from ages 14 to 17. But participation is falling, and particularly  in New Jersey, a state long known for being rich in high school football talent.In 2017, 1,700 fewer players were reported playing high school football in New Jersey than the year before, a 6.8 percent decrease. Only three states — Colorado, Montana and Oklahoma — lost players at a higher rate over the same period. Most attributed the decline to increased concerns about player safety.Carty, a past president of the executive board of the New Jersey coaches association, said that while the purpose of the new rules was to increase safety, they also could help slow the decline in participation. He said he and a number of other coaches in New Jersey had been following the guidelines announced Wednesday for the past few seasons. Now, they will apply to everyone.“We’re not doing this as a recruiting ploy,” he said. “It’s just we want to keep our kids safe and we want people to know this is happening. By making it a mandate statewide, it can ease the fears of a lot of parents that they won’t have to investigate that their coach is doing it the right way.”Other states moved to put new limits on out-of-game contact before New Jersey did. At least seven allow only 60 minutes of full-contact practice each week, and Texas has also worked to reduce head injuries by offering junior high school and high school coaches seminars on rugby tackling, where the focus is on leading with the shoulder instead of the head.The N.C.A.A. does not mandate limits for its college football teams, offering only recommendations. The various conferences set their own limits, ranging from the Pacific-12, which allows 90 minutes a week, to the Ivy League, which does not allow any full-contact training.The N.F.L. allows 14 padded practices during its 18-week regular season, and one practice per day for each day of preseason.Terry O’Neil, the founder of Practice Like Pros, said that his organization, which includes former N.F.L. players and coaches, neurosurgeons and orthopedists, is not concerned with participation levels. The goal is to promote the safety of those playing the game now. The approval of the New Jersey rules, he said, “is going to be very helpful for us in opening the conversation with other states around the country.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe effects of head trauma have gotten much of the attention, but huge weight gains have also damaged N.F.L. retirees. By Ken BelsonAn insidious scourge that has nothing to do with head trauma is ravaging retired N.F.L. players.In the past few decades, the N.F.L.’s emphasis on the passing game and quarterback protection has led teams to stock their offensive and defensive lines with ever-larger men, many of them weighing well over 300 pounds. But their great girth, which coaches encouraged and which helped turn some players into multimillion-dollar commodities, leaves many of them prone to obesity problems.In retirement, these huge men are often unable to lose the weight they needed to do their jobs. Without the structure of a team and the guidance of coaches for the first time in decades, many of them lose the motivation to stay in shape, or cannot even try, as damage to their feet, knees, backs and shoulders limits their ability to exercise. This is a big reason that former linemen, compared with other football players and the general population, have higher rates of hypertension, obesity and sleep apnea, which can lead to chronic fatigue, poor diet and even death. Blocking for a $25-million-a-year quarterback, it turns out, can put linemen in the high-risk category for many of the ailments health experts readily encourage people to avoid. “Linemen are bigger, and in today’s world, rightly or wrongly, they are told to bulk up,” said Henry Buchwald, a specialist in bariatric surgery at the University of Minnesota who works with the Living Heart Foundation, a nonprofit organization that provides free medical tests to former N.F.L. players. “Their eating habits are hard to shed when they stop playing, and when they get obese, they get exposed to diabetes, hypertension and cardiac problems.”Many linemen say they were encouraged by their high school and college coaches to gain weight to win scholarships and to be drafted by the N.F.L., where a lot of players were required to become even bigger. In some cases, players were converted from tight ends to down linemen, and needed extra weight to play the new position. Coaches often leave it up to the players to decide how to gain weight. Joe Thomas, an All-Pro lineman with the Cleveland Browns, said that as a freshman in college he ate every few hours to gain the 40 pounds he needed to get to 290 pounds. He gobbled burgers, frozen pizzas and large bowls of ice cream. “It was see food, eat food,” Thomas said.The Living Heart Foundation has examined several thousand former players since it was formed in 2001 with financial backing from the N.F.L. players’ union. About two-thirds of those players — not just linemen — had a body mass index above 30, which is considered moderately obese. A third of those screened were at 35 or above, or significantly obese. The index, which is viewed as a general indication of weight relative to size, does not take into account muscle mass. Linemen have been getting heavier, faster. From 1942 to 2011, they have gained an average of three-quarters of a pound to two pounds a year, about twice the average gain for all N.F.L. players, according to a study published in The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.Another study showed that the average weight of offensive linemen ballooned 27 percent, from 249 pounds in the 1970s to 315 pounds in the 2000s, as the passing game evolved. The consequences can be dire. A study published in The American Journal of Medicine found that for every 10 pounds football players gained from high school to college, or from college to the professional level, the risk of heart disease rose 14 percent compared with players whose weight changed little during the same period.Plenty of linemen do lose weight. The former linemen Matt Birk and Nick Hardwick shed dozens of pounds after retiring and publicized their achievement. Thomas, who retired last year after 11 seasons with the Browns, gained roughly 30 pounds after entering the N.F.L. He has since lost about 50 pounds by eating less and eating healthier.“I reversed everything I was doing,” said Thomas, who weighed about 320 pounds in the N.F.L. “No more freezer pizzas before bed. I dialed back the carbs, added whole grains, couscous, quinoa.”The N.F.L. and the players’ union, recognizing more must be done, offer retired players medical exams, health club memberships and other services. Dozens of retired players, for instance, get free health screenings at the Super Bowl.Still, many players are unreachable, said Archie Roberts, a former N.F.L. quarterback and retired heart surgeon who started the Living Heart Foundation. “If you don’t guide players through it, they won’t show up. If we can’t get them to follow through, they won’t get the health care they deserve.”Many former linemen said they woke to the dangers of being obese when the Hall of Famer Reggie White died in 2004 of cardiac arrhythmia. White also had sleep apnea.Linemen are prone to the affliction, in which a person’s breathing repeatedly stops and starts because the muscles in their neck press against the breathing passage as they sleep. This cuts off the flow of oxygen and wakes the player, often for a second or two. The continual sleep interruptions can make it difficult for those with sleep apnea to feel fully rested.Former linemen have big necks, and as they age their throat tissue becomes flabby, so their tongues can block their airways, said Anthony Scianni, a dentist who runs the Center for Dental Sleep Medicine, which works with former N.F.L. players.The lack of oxygen, Scianni said, stimulates the body to produce more sugars, which can cause Type 2 diabetes and lead to overeating and other problems.Derek Kennard, a guard for 11 seasons with the Cardinals, the Saints and the Cowboys, has battled to reverse this cycle. He snored so loudly — a common symptom of sleep apnea — that his roommate in his last season asked for a different room. After Kennard retired in 1996, the years of sleep deprivation led to other problems. He ate poorly and gained 100 pounds. He took Vicodin to deal with the pain of his football injuries. The pain, lack of sleep and extra weight made it difficult to exercise. His cholesterol levels and blood pressure jumped. He would fall asleep behind the wheel while stopped at traffic lights.“You’re not sleeping well, so your body is not healing itself,” said Kennard, whose son Devon is a linebacker for the Lions. After his brother died in 2009, Kennard, who is 6-foot-3 and whose weight peaked at 465 pounds, sought help. He was tested for sleep apnea and was told he woke 77 times per hour. One episode of not breathing lasted 1 minute 32 seconds. Because he flips in bed as he sleeps, Kennard had trouble wearing the mask of a CPAP machine, which delivers continuous positive airway pressure and is the standard treatment for sleep apnea. He switched to a mouthpiece that kept his airways open. He now wakes just twice an hour, and sleeps about seven hours a night. His weight fell to about 350 pounds, and he stopped taking painkillers.“A hundred pounds came off quickly because I had energy to do exercise,” he said at a conference for retired players in Phoenix, where he lives. Kennard urges other former players to be checked for sleep apnea, and tries to convince them that wearing a mask does not make them weak.“I had so much death in my life, I could see it in front of me,” he said.Vaughn Parker, a tackle who played 11 years, mostly with the Chargers, struggled with overeating, and after a dozen surgeries on his shoulders, ankles and triceps, he had a hard time exercising to shed weight. He also got busy. Parker invested in real estate in San Diego until the market collapsed in 2008. He had two children, split with his wife and studied for an M.B.A., which he finished in May 2017. The stress led him to eat more, and before he knew it, he had added 90 pounds to his 6-foot-3 frame and weighed more than 400 pounds. “Everyone has their cross to bear,” said Parker, 47, who also has high blood pressure. “For some people, it’s gambling or alcohol. For me, it’s food.”In 2013, Parker received a phone call from Aaron Taylor, a former teammate, who encouraged him to work out with other retired N.F.L. players who received free gym memberships from the Trust, a group started by the N.F.L. and the players’ union to assist retirees.Parker started driving 40 minutes to Carlsbad, north of San Diego, several times a week to EXOS, a high-end fitness club, where a trainer tailored workouts to his abilities and injuries. Afterward, the handful of former players discussed their progress and drank nutritional shakes. They learned about portion control and shopping for healthy food. Parker knew he had lost his best chance to become fit, which is right after retirement, but he tried to catch up. His workouts were exhausting, but he stuck with the program, in part driven by the camaraderie of the other ex-players, and shed nearly 100 pounds the first year. “There wasn’t a day I didn’t sit at the edge of my bed and say I’m not going today,” Parker said. Keeping the weight off has been a challenge. At home, he drinks protein shakes and eats made-to-order meals. But he also likes sugary drinks, and eating healthily on business trips has been tough. When he dines out with friends, he eats nachos, chicken wings and fried foods.But the prospect of cascading health problems motivates Parker to keep exercising. He recently re-enrolled in a six-week training program at EXOS.“How many 400-pound offensive linemen are walking around in their 50s?” he said.Linemen are not the only players who need to keep the pounds on to play their position. Tight ends and linebackers often do as well.That was true for Jimmie Giles, who because of his size and soft hands was one of the best blocking tight ends of his day. Nearly 30 years after he retired, Giles, who lives in Tampa, Fla., where he starred for the Buccaneers, checks in at roughly 350 pounds, about 100 pounds above his playing weight.After 13 years in the N.F.L., ending in 1989, he had done lasting damage to his back, knees and feet. He had regular headaches, the result of about a dozen concussions. When he retired he took up golf to stay in shape. But the effects of his football injuries added up, limiting his activity. He had four degenerative disks in his back and no feeling in his right leg, and he had sleep apnea. His inability to exercise exacerbated his problems.“It’s not like I gained 100 pounds right away,” he said.To relieve the pain in his back, Giles received five epidurals a year, an ordeal he gave up when he started taking painkillers. But they can be highly addictive and caused sluggishness.“That’s not living — that’s surviving,” Giles said in his family’s insurance office in Tampa.About two years ago, Giles quit taking painkillers. He now receives cortisone shots instead. He said he does not even take aspirin “because I want to know when I hurt.”“As long as I’m at a 5 out of 10 in terms of pain, I’m all right,” he added.Giles, though, has put off back surgery for as long as possible, wary of the side effects. Every six months or so, he also receives radio frequency epidurals to deaden the nerves in his left leg, where he suffers shooting pain. Giles’s father died from a heart attack, and his brother, who had congestive heart failure, is also dead. So Giles, who receives disability benefits from the N.F.L., regularly visits doctors to keep his high blood pressure and other vital signs in check.Losing weight has been difficult. He rode a bicycle until it affected his prostate. Now he swims for an hour several times a week. He tries to eat moderately, and he avoids sweets and breads.“It’s hard for him,” his wife, Vivian, said. “It’s not the food — it’s the injuries.”When David Lewis played linebacker in the 1970s and early 1980s, he was 6-foot-4 and weighed 236 pounds. Like many other players, he was pushed out of the game by injuries.“I’ve had sprains, broken knuckles, hyperextended elbows, nerve problems in my neck, shoulders,” Lewis, 64, said. “I’d be guessing how much concussions I had.”By about 40, he was receiving disability payments, and he has qualified for the 88 Plan, a league and union benefit that pays for medical care for players with dementia, including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. Unable to run or exert himself much, he now weighs about 300 pounds.“As time went on, all the sickness started to add up,” he said.The sickness includes Type 2 diabetes, a kidney ailment and a congested heart from hypertension. He receives iron transfusions to correct a deficiency. He takes a half-dozen pills each day.Aside from taking medicine, combating those problems has not been easy. Lewis said he needed a knee replacement which should allow him to exercise more. But he said he could not have the surgery because of his heart condition.He goes to a Y.M.C.A. to walk on the treadmill and ride a stationary bicycle. He has also tried to eat healthier, like dropping sausages in favor of oatmeal, egg whites and fruit.This has helped him lose about 30 pounds this year and ease the stress on his knees and back.Lewis knows he has to keep moving. Metabolically, the more weight you have, the harder it is to lose weight because the fat cells replicate, said Rudi Ferrate, a doctor who helps players with sleep apnea. “We’re designed to store energy,” he said.Willie Roaf knew it was time to retire in 2005. After 13 years at left tackle with the Saints and the Chiefs, he was destined for the Pro Football Hall of Fame, which he entered in 2012. Many of the 189 games he played were on unforgiving turf, and his body was breaking down.Roaf, 48, tore his hamstring and had back and knee injuries, episodes of gout, a staph infection and periodic lymphatic swelling in his leg. Prediabetic, meaning his blood glucose levels were higher than normal, he was determined to keep his weight down and went to the gym after he retired. He weighed about 320 pounds, similar to during his playing career.But within a few years, he became less mobile. Doctors told him he had spinal stenosis, a narrowing of the spinal canal. In 2013, a doctor told him he had the back of a 70-year-old. He had surgery to relieve pressure on the sciatic nerves. He wanted to keep the pounds off, but working out was difficult.“I can’t do anything more than stretching,” he said in his Florida kitchen. He takes medicine to prevent gout and to regulate his blood pressure, cholesterol, arthritis and uric acid.His mobility has increased, and he has returned to the gym, where he does 30 minutes on the treadmill or elliptical machine several times a week. He takes about 7,000 steps a day, which he monitors with a Fitbit. He competes with friends to see who can walk the most. He tries to drink smoothies, eat fewer sweets and take vitamins.“The more I move around, the better my numbers,” Roaf said. Still, his injuries limit how much he can do, which has made it hard for him to lose 50 pounds to reach his target of 300 pounds.“If it’s a bad day, I’ll just sit in the recliner and not go anywhere,” he said.At the end of an hourlong conversation, Roaf’s Fitbit buzzed to remind him to get up and move. He got out of his chair, walked to a couch in the living room and sat again. The gym would have to wait.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the average weight of offensive linemen in the 1970s. It was 249 pounds, not 240.Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaLONDON — The diplomatic standoff between Qatar and its Arab neighbors spilled into the sports world once again Thursday as a Qatari vice president of Asia’s soccer confederation was barred from traveling to the United Arab Emirates ahead of the region’s top tournament.Saoud al-Mohannadi, vice president of the Asian Football Confederation, was denied permission to travel from Oman to the U.A.E. after airport officials said he wouldn’t be let into the country. The U.A.E., with Saudi Arabia and a handful of other Mideast countries, broke diplomatic relations and severed all ties with Qatar in 2017.Mohannadi is the chairman of the A.F.C.’s competitions committee, a group with overall responsibility for the Asian Cup. Prohibiting him from traveling to the U.A.E. is the first sign that long-simmering political tensions in the Gulf are likely to have ramifications for continent’s biggest tournament.Mohannadi immediately wrote a letter of complaint to Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa, the Bahraini royal who is the A.F.C.’s current president. The organization said in a statement that it was aware of reports that Mohannadi was being denied the right to travel and that it would investigate. The A.F.C. said it had been “assured of visas and entry permits” for tournament organizing committee members and executives.The Saudi-led diplomatic dispute with Qatar included the suspension of flights between Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, as well as several other countries. Only recently have Qatari citizens been allowed to apply for permission to travel between the two countries. Such travel typically requires a visa and an approval letter from local authorities.Mohannadi, who in 2017 successfully managed to overturn a one-year FIFA ethics ban, had applied to enter the U.A.E. Local organizers told him he could travel there even though he had not received official clearance, according to people familiar with the matter. He traveled from Doha to Muscat, Oman’s capital, where he was told his clearance was not registered.The soccer federation in Qatar, which will host the World Cup in 2022, said in a statement that it had reached out to the A.F.C. about the matter. “We will comment further once we have an official response on the incident,” the federation said.The diplomatic dispute, which exploded in the spring of 2017, has already impacted regional sports. Players and officials on teams from countries opposed to Qatar initially refused to speak to beIN Sports, the Qatari-owned network that owns the rights to the A.F.C.’s events. For much of the past year, BeoutQ, a bootlegging television network, has been unimpeded in broadcasting pirated beIN Sports events using a satellite operator based in Saudi Arabia.BeoutQ was launched in response to the governments of Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. blocking the sale of beIN Sports as part of a blockade that has closed off air and sea access between the countries.Mohannadi’s travel plans are unlikely to be the last flashpoint in the 24-team tournament that kicks off on Saturday. The draw, made in May, set up a match between foes Qatar and Saudi Arabia on Jan. 17. It’s unlikely many, if any, Qatari supporters will make the trip to Abu Dhabi.“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”Mohannadi is one of two candidates who will be challenging Sheikh Salman for the A.F.C.’s presidency later this year. The other candidate is Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi, a sports official from the U.A.E.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Danya IssawiThe search for love is back on in “The Bachelor,” and feel that high school nostalgia during “Friday Night Lights.”THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC. Colton Underwood, the former NFL football player and Season 14 “Bachelorette” contestant, returns to reality TV once more to try to find love. During the 23rd-season premiere of this show, which has captivated many and caused books to be written about its scope and power, Colton meets the 30 contenders after his heart. They include Miss Alabama 2018 and one contestant who brings, and momentarily leaves behind, her 10-year-old pet Pomeranian.COLLEGE FOOTBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 8 p.m. on ESPN.  Alabama, with a 14-0 record, takes on Clemson, also 14-0, for the national title. This is the fourth year these teams are meeting in the College Football Playoff, and the third time in those four years that the two go head-to-head for the championship.AMERICA’S GOT TALENT: THE CHAMPIONS 8 p.m. on NBC. The judges Simon Cowell, Mel B, Heidi Klum and Howie Mandel return, and the new host, Terry Crews, arrives, in this series premiere. The show features the most notable contestants and acts from past seasons and other iterations of “America’s Got Talent,” bringing them together to compete for the title of world champion. Fifty acts will return to the stage, including the 2009 runner-up Susan Boyle; the knife-throwing act Deadly Games, a 2016 semifinalist; and the ventriloquist Darci Lynne Farmer, the 2017 winner.LOVE ACTUALLY (2003) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Hulu and Vudu. Although Christmas is over, it’s hard to wean yourself from holiday movies. Now that Valentine’s Day is approaching, a Christmas-themed film about love might help you get ready for February’s celebration. With a star-studded cast — Liam Neeson, Alan Rickman, Colin Firth, Emma Thompson, Hugh Grant and Keira Knightley, among others — the film follows several intertwining love stories, including that of a prime minister who falls for a young staffer, and one about a marriage on the brink and plagued by infidelity. Despite a few questionable subplots involving a young woman and a much older man in a position of power, which prompted the critic A. O. Scott to label the movie’s portrayal of love “shallow and dishonest” in The New York Times, the feature remains a cult classic and even received an unorthodox 15-minute sequel nearly 15 years later.FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS (2004) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Hulu and Vudu. In this film, based on H. G. Bissinger’s 1990 nonfiction book, the director Peter Berg brings the small town of Odessa, Tex., where football reigns, to the screen. Here, the game takes precedence over everything, rivaling religion. Inspired by the Permian High Panthers’ 1988 season, the movie offers glimpses into the personal lives of the boys tasked with upholding their town’s honor, like the star quarterback, Mike Winchell (Lucas Black), and Don Billingsley (Garrett Hedlund), who is the victim of an abusive father (Tim McGraw). The players, as well as their coach (Billy Bob Thornton), must learn to navigate the pressures of being hometown heroes. Berg went on to create a television series of the same title, writing and directing its pilot episode.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy Engle Before reading the article: With the Super Bowl approaching, it’s a good time to appreciate the athletic prowess of N.F.L. athletes.Watch the three videos of one-handed catches featured in the article.Which catch do you think was the best or most impressive, and why?Now, read the article, “Grab and Go: How Sticky Gloves Have Changed Football,” and answer the following questions: 1. The article begins, “One of the most infamous dropped passes in football history clanged off Dallas Cowboys tight end Jackie Smith as he lay in the end zone during Super Bowl XIII.” Why did David Waldstein, the author, choose a play from 40 years ago to open the piece? Why does he suggest that Smith’s fortune might have been different if he were playing football today?2. Mr. Waldstein writes: “When a catch is made, the naked eye often sees only hands grabbing a ball. But what is happening on the palms of a receiver’s gloves is far more complex.” In your own words, explain the science involved when a player catches a ball while wearing silicone gloves.3. What properties of the silicone glove are most surprising or interesting to you? How does Mr. Waldstein help the reader visualize how the gloves work on a microscopic level?4. How did Anette Hosoi, a co-director of the M.I.T. Sports Lab and an associate dean of engineering at M.I.T., test the gloves to determine how much “tackiness” they provide for users? How much stickier is the glove than a human hand?5. Jeff Beraznik first had the idea of a sticky football glove as a football player at the University of Ottawa. How did his pursuit of the perfect glove lead him to Karachi, Pakistan? What does his story tell you about the nature of innovation?6. Why was Stickum, an earlier product used by wide receivers, outlawed by the N.F.L.? How do silicone gloves meet the criteria of the current rule book?7. Odell Beckham Jr. is widely seen as the master of the one-handed catch. How has he influenced other receivers playing the game? How has the one-handed catch changed football?Finally, tell us more about what you think: — What’s your reaction to the article? Are you more or less impressed by the athletic prowess of N.F.L. wide receivers?— According to the article:The technological advances on the skin of those gloves have been so profound that they now enable receivers to snare passes their forebears never dreamed of catching, and in making the seemingly impossible possible, they may be changing the way football is played.Do you think athletes should be able to use technology to improve their performance? Or do you think they give some athletes an unfair advantage? Does advanced equipment diminish or strengthen individuals’ talent and the sport over all? Why do you think so?— If you do think technology is acceptable in sports, should there be limits on the amount or type of equipment that athletes can use? Is there any advancement that could be considered “going too far” or cheating? Is it all fair game? Why?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonThe number of minority coaches in the N.F.L. is likely to fall by half next season, suggesting that the league’s recent efforts to promote diversity in hiring are still a work in progress.Two weeks after the end of the regular season, nearly every new head coach hired has been white, which is certain to reignite the debate over whether a league in which roughly three-quarters of the players are black is doing enough to promote people of color into positions of power.This season, there were eight minority coaches, tied for the most ever. Yet among eight coaches who have lost their jobs, including those fired midseason, five were black, leaving just three minority coaches — two black and one Latino — among the 32 coaches in the league.Thus far, six out of the seven coaches hired by teams have been white.The sudden reversal of fortune for minority coaches comes after the 32 N.F.L. owners announced in December that they were strengthening rules that obligate teams to consider minority candidates when hiring coaches and executives.At the time, the league denied that it amended the so-called Rooney Rule, named for Dan Rooney, the late owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who championed its creation in 2003, because it was not effective enough. The rule requires teams to interview at least one minority candidate in their searches for new coaches.The N.F.L. declined to comment on coaches hired this month.With such a small sample size, big fluctuations can happen when a handful of teams have down years. The sudden decline in the number of coaches may look startling, but Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida, said that number is bound to rise again.Lapchick noted that there were a record eight minority coaches in 2011 before the total declined only to have it return to a record eight coaches last year.“You can’t not notice when that number of black coaches gets fired,” he said. But he added that it was “a part of the natural cycle” of coaches getting fired and hired. “I definitely think it has a chance to go up.”Lapchick, who compiles a “Racial and Gender Report Card” on the N.F.L. and other professional sports leagues, said having eight minority coaches in a 32-team league, is reasonable. Rather than comparing the percentage of minority coaches to the number of minority players, he uses the percentage of people of color in the entire country as a benchmark.Cyrus Mehri, the co-founder of the Fritz Pollard Alliance, which helped establish the Rooney Rule and monitors its implementation, said his group cannot tell teams which coach to hire. Rather, the key is ensuring that teams give minority candidates an equal shot at obtaining a job, and this year, every team with an opening has followed the rules and interviewed at least one and sometimes several minority candidates.“You don’t overcome decades of history just by snapping your finger, but we have to say the process was fully followed this year,” he said.Mehri is focused on strengthening the pipeline of minorities in junior coaching jobs so the pool of candidates for head coaching spots deepens. He noted the percentage of minority offensive coordinators and quarterback coaches is still low. Minorities account for roughly 30 percent of N.F.L. assistants.“We think the league has a lot of work to do,” he said, though “in the long run, we’re feeling good where things are, and what’s been accomplished.”Still, the league has been criticized by advocates and former coaches, who have said teams have been skirting the rules.Last year, it was not clear that the Oakland Raiders conducted any good faith interviews with minority candidates for their vacancy at coach before they ultimately hired Jon Gruden, who is white.Now that teams have started to fill their coaching vacancies this year, the number of minority coaches may fall by half.The Arizona Cardinals replaced Steve Wilks, who is black, with Kliff Kingsbury, a college coach. The Green Bay Packers followed by choosing Matt LaFleur as their coach, while the Tampa Buccaneers hired Bruce Arians to replace Dirk Koetter. All three new coaches are white.The Cleveland Browns followed by hiring Freddie Kitchens, a positions coach with the team who is white. He replaced Hue Jackson, who is black and was fired during the season.Also last week, the Denver Broncos replaced Vance Joseph, who is black, with Vic Fangio, a longtime defensive coordinator, who is white.And on Monday, the Jets hired Adam Gase, who had been fired by the Miami Dolphins, to take over the team’s top spot. Gase, who is white, replaced Todd Bowles, who is black.The Cincinnati Bengals, who fired longtime coach Marvin Lewis, who is black, are reportedly considering hiring Zac Taylor, who is white.Thus far, the lone exception has been the Dolphins, who are expected to sign Brian Flores, the linebacker coach of the New England Patriots, once his team is eliminated from the playoffs.If Flores is hired, he would join Anthony Lynn of the Los Angeles Chargers, Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers and Ron Rivera of the Carolina Panthers as the only minority coaches.There are only a handful of minority general managers as well. Reggie McKenzie, who was named the N.F.L. executive of the year in 2016, was fired midseason by the Oakland Raiders, where he was the chief football executive. Ozzie Newsome, the first African-American general manager in league history, retired after working with the Ravens since they arrived in Baltimore in 1996.To be sure, coaches are hired and fired for many reasons, including most of all, success on the field. For instance, Joseph was 11-21 in his two seasons in Denver, while Wilks was 3-13 in his one season with the Cardinals.Teams also change strategic directions, and are increasingly looking for offensive-minded coaches to match the success of high-scoring teams in Los Angeles and Kansas City.Some black coaches also get other jobs elsewhere. Bowles, for instance, was quickly hired as the defensive coordinator in Tampa.Still, the N.F.L., where nearly every owner and many top team executives are white, has battled the perception it does not do enough to promote minorities.Under the new regulations enacted in December, teams looking to fill positions must interview at least one minority candidate from a list kept by the league’s Career Development Advisory Panel, or a minority candidate not currently working with a team. Teams also must keep detailed records of who they interview, which is perhaps a response to criticism from minority candidates who say they are routinely called, but not formally interviewed, by teams trying to do the least possible to fulfill their obligations.After it was first established in 2003, the Rooney Rule appeared to be having an impact. By 2011, eight N.F.L. teams had coaches of color, the most to that point, or since.Now, it looks like the league has taken a step back, with the number of minority coaches expected to fall to just four.AdvertisementPeter Frankopan says new volume is a snapshot of what is going on right now.Oxford University historian Peter Frankopan has recently had to live down being placed in the same category as great authors such as Jane Austen and F. Scott Fitzgerald.Frankopan’s best-selling 2015 book, The Silk Roads: A New History of the World, was chosen in December as one of the 25 most influential books to be translated into Chinese over the past 40 years by Amazon China alongside Pride and Prejudice and The Great Gatsby.“It was a poll with some 20,000 respondents. I nearly fell off my chair to be mentioned in the same breath as these authors,” he said.Frankopan, who was speaking over morning coffee at the Rooftop Restaurant of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, is still coming to terms with the success of his first book.Previously laboring away in what might seem the obscure field of Byzantine history, Frankopan has written a history of the ancient Silk Road network that connected Europe, Central Asia and China that has coincided with a renewal of interest in these links and was an international best-seller.“It went viral and global very quickly. It was published in Chinese at the beginning of 2016 and I was very lucky, timing wise, since it also coincided with even greater interest in China’s Belt and Road Initiative,” he said.Frankopan is now back where the other book left off with a new volume, The New Silk Roads: The Present and Future of the World, which was released in November.Whereas the previous book was an epic history spanning millennia, the new one is much more journalistic, taking in events as recent as the Forum on China Africa Cooperation meeting in Beijing in September and the ongoing trade conflict between the United States and China.Like the first, however, it is superbly researched, bringing in everyday examples such as the ownership of football clubs and Bordeaux vineyards to illustrate a more complex connected world.“I initially set out to write a new up-to-date chapter for the first book but soon realized it would be better to try a shorter book that was a bit more journalistic,” he said.“I wanted to explain the Belt and Road (Initiative). I also wanted to look at countries like India, Pakistan, Iran and Russia. These are big second-tier countries, which have large populations and are quite big militarily. They are not superpowers yet but may well turn out to be that.”Frankopan said his approach is to join the dots that others do not tend to do when looking at the countries on this important axis.“We don’t tend to look at different parts of the world and how they are linked and the implications of that,” he said.“This book is a sort of snapshot of what is going on right now and is particularly useful for policymakers and journalists who don’t always actually look at these connections.”One of the biggest connectors is China’s Belt and Road Initiative, launched by President Xi Jinping in 2013, and which is one of the central focuses of the new book.The second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation is set to be held in China in April and already $1 trillion has been committed to 1,000 projects since the initiative was launched.“Five years is not a great period of time in historical terms to assess it. The key test will not be whether infrastructure projects look good but whether they can actually significantly improve the G.D.P. and productivity of China’s neighbors,” he said.In the book, Frankopan quotes Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen as saying: “Other countries have lots of ideas but no money. But for China when it comes with an idea it also comes with the money.”“I think he is right,” said Frankopan.“These projects, for the large part, do have the capability to raise living standards and do the kind of things that large-scale international development does.”At one point Frankopan contrasts the Belt and Road Initiative with the Northern Powerhouse, a British government initiative to improve infrastructure in the north of England, which was launched at the same time. Its main achievement, according to Frankopan, seems to be just a new second entrance to Leeds railway station.“Yes, that is right. There is a different scale of ambition. Belt and Road (Initiative) has had some criticism for lacking definition. As a historian I quite like that because many things in history are open to interpretation. Belt and Road (Initiative) is not saying here is a highway and this counts as being part of the belt and this other one doesn’t. The fact that it is abstract, inclusive and adaptable seems to be quite a good thing.”Although British, Frankopan, 47, also has a distinction of being a Croatian prince due to his Dalmatian ancestry.He was educated at Eton College, the top British public school, and initially read Russian at Jesus College, Cambridge, before eventually specializing in Byzantine history.In 2016, following the success of his book, he was given the impressive and somewhat portentous title of professor of global history at Oxford University.“I was giving a talk in Vienna and the translator got a bit carried away and I was referred to as the ‘professor of universal history’ when I got up to speak, which made me feel as though I had nowhere else to go,” he said, laughing.“All it really means is that I am director of the Oxford Centre for Byzantine Research here but it is global in the sense that if you work on the history of Constantinople or Baghdad, you can’t do it without looking at China, Russia, Africa and so on.“Global history is highly recognizable to a Byzantine historian because it is important to understand plural and different systems which are often thousands of miles apart, and then to try and work out how they configure together,” he adds.Frankopan is also an accomplished linguist but despite his increasing interest in China, he has yet to take on Chinese.“I am sort of thinking I might be too old. I can get (in terms of languages) from Portugal to more or less the Himalayas with a few gaps here and there. I can’t read Hungarian, for example.“I wouldn’t necessarily want to be interviewed on TV in all of them (languages) but reading newspapers is not a problem. People in England think that speaking foreign languages is a miracle and that you have to be really clever, which I think is great. I am very lucky they think like that.”One aspect the book touches upon is Brexit, which in some respects is a breakage in the links in the new connected world.“It is very hard to know what is going to happen. I don’t like change as a historian. I also don’t like volatility because it produces unpredictability and unforeseen consequences. I think the solution we’ll get will weaken the European Union and will weaken the U.K. significantly,” he said.Frankopan said what he wanted to demonstrate in the book was how cities on the new silk roads are no longer backwaters.“If you want to see the best art in the world then the Louvre in Abu Dhabi and the Museum of Islamic Art in Doha are hard to beat,” he said.“You have only to look at the ownership of football teams, with many of them coming from China, Russia or the Gulf, to see that the center of gravity of the world is shifting eastward,” he adds.Frankopan said many people in Asia now have a sense that “tomorrow will be better than today,” something no longer felt in the West.“According to the Gini coefficient (which measures inequality in societies), if you are born in Kazakhstan or Sierra Leone in the bottom 20 percent, you have a better chance of getting out than if you are born in the U.S. and the U.K.,” he said.“No one here in Europe thinks that in 10 years’ time we are going to be significantly richer than we are.”Frankopan said China is aware the world is changing.“They (China) are preparing themselves for a more open outlook on the world. Like in any relationship a lot depends on developing a communication where you talk as well as listen. We are not very good at listening here in the U.K. or in Europe right now.”Andrew MoodyAdvertisementSupported byBy Sapna MaheshwariSuper Bowl Sunday is the day when the advertising industry is not only tolerated but celebrated. And as in years past, brands paid millions of dollars this year for the opportunity to make consumers laugh, cry and reach for their wallets.The advertisers for Super Bowl LIII seemed determined to steer clear of controversy for a second year after politically tinged spots stole the show in 2017.Instead, they offered commercials that championed women, looked to the future and also inspired nostalgia for the ’90s — accompanied, of course, by a parade of celebrities. Cameos included Serena Williams, Jason Bateman, Cardi B and the Backstreet Boys. There was a surprise mash-up between Bud Light and HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” and Burger King relied on vintage footage of Andy Warhol eating a Whopper for its Super Bowl moment.[Follow along with live updates and analysis from Mercedes-Benz Stadium.]“It seems like there’s an awful lot of humor and light appeals, and that for advertisers it’s somewhat of a play-it-safe year,” said Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business. “We’re not hearing about anything crossing over in politics.”Wendy Clark, the chief executive of the agency DDB Worldwide, said that it was hard for ads to break through during a quiet game, describing the array as something of a “mishmash.”“I kind of look at some of these and think, some of them are just fine ads — I’m just not sure they’re Super Bowl ads,” Ms. Clark said. “People have perhaps forgotten that yes, you’ve got all these eyes and attention, but there is still competition for people being around you and talking to you and food and drink and the game itself.”The talk about trouble for the TV business has never extended to the Super Bowl, where the average cost of a 30-second spot climbed to a cool $5.2 million last year, according to Kantar Media. It is roughly the same this year. That figure rose by 96 percent in the previous decade, while the average rate for other prime-time ads fell by 12 percent, according to the firm. More than 100 million people were expected to watch the CBS telecast.Bud Light ran two spots that got people talking, both featuring its medieval cast of characters.One began with a joust and allowed “Game of Thrones” characters, including a dragon, to hijack the spot, ultimately advertising both Bud Light and the final season of the much-loved HBO show, which starts on April 14. (Ultimately, fans might be thirstier for the show than the beer.) The spot tapped into the same show enthusiasm that Doritos harnessed last year with an ad that featured Morgan Freeman and Peter Dinklage.“If you look at Bud Light, they’ve been in this medieval world, so it’s smart on their part to try to get at the love of ‘Game of Thrones,’” said Liz Taylor, chief creative officer of the agency FCB’s Chicago office. But it’s an uncommon type of collaboration, she said.Ms. Clark of DDB said, “No one saw that coming as a ‘Game of Thrones’ ad, and I thought it was a fantastic and very brave pair-up.”The agency Droga5, which collaborated with Bud Light’s agency, Wieden+Kennedy, said that more than 25 people from the show’s crew worked on the ad. That included David Nutter, who has directed several of notable “Game of Thrones” episodes. The agencies sought to mimic the unexpected twists from the show by killing off the Bud Knight.Chris Spadaccini, HBO’s head of marketing, said the network was looking for a “partner that would be willing to make a bold sacrifice ‘for the throne.’”Earlier, Bud Light ran a commercial that showed its characters receiving a shipment of corn syrup, supposedly meant for either Miller Lite or Coors Light. MillerCoors quickly responded, saying that none of its products contain “any high fructose corn syrup” and that a number of Anheuser-Busch items do. The National Corn Growers Association also expressed disappointment with the company on Twitter.“It was interesting they went for a broad brand play there and actually attacked their competitors,” said Jon Haber, co-founder of the ad agency Giant Spoon. “They did it in a funny and cute way.” The aim seemed to be to “put that little seed of doubt in there” for consumers in stores, who are deciding between the three brands, he said.“Pepsi and Coke have done it to each other for years,” Mr. Haber said of the jab. “It’s a tried-and-true tradition.”TurboTax ran a spot featuring a disconcerting character named “RoboChild,” who was told that he could not work at the company when he grew up. Walmart showed an array of futuristic cars from movies and TV shows to promote online ordering and pickup. Ads for Mercedes and Pringles used voice assistants, and robots appeared in an ad for Michelob Ultra.“It’s finally the Super Bowl where the message is more about the future than anything else,” said Mr. Haber of Giant Spoon. “Everyone’s showing their digital transformation capabilities.”Ms. Taylor of FCB said, “That’s kind of the cultural moment that people are tapping into — A.I. and robots and tech.”Derek Rucker, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, said that as advertisers played it safe regarding political messages, they seemed to be relying on technology as a way to safely incorporate modern culture into their commercials.“That theme is very present — I can’t remember a Super Bowl that did it at this level,” he said. “That could go hand-in-hand — where people want to be creative but don’t want to be in any dangerous territory.”Ms. Taylor was left feeling slightly underwhelmed.“Last year, the ads were really fun and took the pulse of the country and brands used their media time to bring a sense of hope and inspiration,” she said. “That’s what I’m missing so far.”Microsoft aired a tear-jerker in the second half, with a spot that showcased a group of children with physical limitations talking about how they love gaming, and are able to play video games through Xbox adaptive controllers. “No matter how your body is, or how fast you are, you can play,” one of the boys said in an online version of the spot.Tech giants loomed large. That includes Amazon, which had a Super Bowl ad for the fourth time.Amazon showed a trailer for a new show called “Hanna” on its Prime streaming service and another ad for its Alexa devices. The latter included celebrities like Harrison Ford, Forest Whitaker and the “Broad City” stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson.Amazon, which ran its first Super Bowl ad in 2016, has become a big presence as its overall marketing spending has increased. Last year, the company was one of the game’s five biggest advertisers for the first time, according to Kantar, on a list that included Anheuser-Busch, Fiat Chrysler, Toyota and Procter & Gamble.Last year, Amazon raised its ad spending in the United States by about 73 percent, Kantar said, outspending companies like General Motors, Verizon and L’Oréal.“Their presence makes a lot of sense to me,” Professor Rucker said. “Their target is probably a massive portion of everyone watching.”On a somewhat related note, The Washington Post made a last-minute decision to run a spot — a first for the newspaper. The ad, which ran in the fourth quarter and was narrated by Tom Hanks, highlighted “reporters’ work and the importance of press freedom,” Fred Ryan, the newspaper’s publisher, said in a statement.It showed images of journalists from several news organizations, including CNN and Fox News, and referred to the death of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi dissident journalist who wrote for the newspaper before he was killed in October. It closed with the paper’s motto, “Democracy Dies in Darkness.” The Post is owned by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive.Did you love “I Know What You Did Last Summer”? How about the Backstreet Boys? “Sex and the City”?Who knew a night of football could bring all of that back!The Backstreet Boys — whose oldest member is only a few years away from 50 — joined Chance the Rapper for a Doritos commercial that remixed the group’s song “I Want It That Way.” Sarah Jessica Parker took a turn as the cocktail-loving Carrie Bradshaw in an ad for Stella Artois, which also featured Jeff Bridges as the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Sarah Michelle Gellar appeared in a spot that reprised “I Know What You Did Last Summer” to sell Olay skin cream. And the actress Christina Applegate, known for the sitcom “Married With Children,” appeared in an ad for M&Ms.“There’s a lot of cross-generational appeal with the Backstreet Boys,” said Jennifer Saenz, chief marketing officer of Frito-Lay North America, which is owned by PepsiCo. “They were relevant a decade ago and still relevant today.”In the Super Bowl host city, Pepsi erected billboards and put out recycling bins while “trying to paint Atlanta blue,” according to Greg Lyons, chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit. The city is home to Coca-Cola, but Pepsi’s signage sought to remind people that its brand was the “official soft drink of Super Bowl LIII.”Bumble, the dating app that requires women to message potential matches first, ran its first Super Bowl ad, which featured the tennis star Serena Williams urging women to “make the first move” in all areas of their lives. Toyota’s commercial chronicled the unexpected path of a football player named Antoinette Harris, and compared her journey to one of its vehicles, which it said “will shatter perceptions.”“The female empowerment theme this year is very real,” Professor Taylor said. “That doesn’t mean it’s overwhelming — there’s still more ads with male lead characters and still more male celebrities — but I think it’s narrowed a little bit.”“I haven’t seen any ads that objectify women, which is awesome,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners.“Over all, the gap is narrowing,” she said. “We’re moving in the right direction.”Advertisers largely seemed to be avoiding anything remotely controversial — perhaps seeking to learn from years past.Last year, Ram trucks faced criticism  after it used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for its Super Bowl ad. The timing didn’t help, considering one story line last season was about N.F.L. players who sat or knelt during the national anthem to draw attention to racial oppression and police brutality against black Americans.Two years ago, after the presidential election, Airbnb and 84 Lumber ran spots that were viewed as responses to President Trump’s stance on immigration.This year, advertisers sought to tie themselves to social causes. Budweiser, for example, highlighted its efforts in renewable energy in a spot that featured a charming dog, the beverage company’s Clydesdales and the Bob Dylan song “Blowin’ in the Wind.” And Verizon, for a second year, put a spotlight on emergency workers.One brand appeared to seek attention by creating an ad it claimed was too racy for CBS — a tried-and-true strategy for many previous advertisers. Devour, a maker of frozen meals, riffed on the concept of “food porn” for its spot, with a girlfriend discussing her boyfriend’s addiction to tantalizing footage of frozen food. Ultimately, Devour released a more saucy version of its ad online and one that was deemed appropriate for television.Still, the family-approved version may lead to some questions from the children in the room.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Benjamin HoffmanThe Arizona Cardinals hired Kliff Kingsbury as their new head coach, becoming the latest team to bet on a high-flying offense to bring them success.Kingsbury, a former head coach at Texas Tech and a proponent of the air raid offense, has worked with Patrick Mahomes, Baker Mayfield, Johnny Manziel, Case Keenum and other quarterbacks during his time as a college coach, which included stops at Texas A&M and Houston. Kingsbury’s arrival comes just days after the Cardinals cut ties with Steve Wilks, a defensive-minded coach who was fired after just one season.The Cardinals, who handed the starting job to the rookie quarterback Josh Rosen in Week 4, had a league-worst record of 3-13, and scored just 225 points, the least in the league.Kingsbury, who signed a four-year contract according to multiple news media reports, will be expected to replicate the success that Coach Sean McVay had with the Los Angeles Rams in a similar situation: a young offensive coach being paired with a promising young quarterback (for the Rams, that player was Jared Goff). The Cardinals’ announcement of Kingsbury’s hiring went as far as pointing out that Kingsbury and McVay are friends.As for Kingsbury, he made it clear that he knows what is expected of him, and that he believes he is a good fit with Rosen and the Cardinals.“With the offensive trends these days, it felt like perfect time to be here,” Kingsbury said in an interview with the Cardinals’ website.Kingsbury, who was fired by Texas Tech in November after a disappointing season, initially agreed to join Clay Helton’s staff at Southern California as offensive coordinator, but now he will try to continue the trend of bringing modern college offenses to the pro level. Kingsbury’s Red Raiders went just 35-40 over six seasons, but at its peak in 2015, Kingsbury’s offense averaged 45.1 points a game.The Cardinals were the first of eight teams with head coaching vacancies to officially fill the position, but the Green Bay Packers announced later Tuesday that they had hired Matt LaFleur in an apparent attempt at finding their own McVay-esque magic.LaFleur, who most recently was the offensive coordinator of the Tennessee Titans, also served as McVay’s offensive coordinator in 2017 before joining the Titans in that role for 2018 — a move spurred by his desire to call his own plays. He was quarterbacks coach in Atlanta before joining the Rams.The 32-year-old McVay seemed excited for LaFleur but also amused, telling reporters on Tuesday when the move had been reported, “I’m too young to have a coaching tree.”For all the emphasis on young, offensive-minded coaches, older coaches with experience are not completely out of style. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers appear to be taking that strategy, announcing on Tuesday that they had hired Bruce Arians, the 66-year-old former coach of the Cardinals, as their new head coach.In December, the N.F.L. strengthened its rules requiring teams to interview minority candidates for top coaching and front office positions. The league’s commitment to hiring more minority coaches and executives is under renewed scrutiny because five of the eight coaches who were fired this season were black.All three of the expected new coaches — Kingsbury, LaFleur and Arians — are white.Five other teams — the Bengals, Broncos, Browns, Dolphins and Jets — remain in the market for a new head coach.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunAfter a 4-12 season, the Jets were expected to overhaul their staff. But few expected the team to land perhaps the most controversial figure in the N.F.L. coaching ranks.Enter Gregg Williams, the Jets’ new defensive coordinator, whose credentials include a Super Bowl ring with the New Orleans Saints in 2009; a surprisingly positive run as the interim coach of the Cleveland Browns this season; and, not to be forgotten, a role as the face of one of the ugliest scandals to tarnish the image of the N.F.L. in the last decade.For the Jets, mired in one of their trademark periods of borderline irrelevance, he has been brought in to reform an undisciplined defense and counterbalance Adam Gase, the newly hired coach, who at 40 is one of the league’s youngest, most innovative offensive minds.Williams’s reputation as a firebrand, however, carries significant risks for a franchise frequently plagued by off-field distraction.Williams was at the heart of the scandal known as Bountygate, in which the Saints, with Williams as ringleader, offered payouts to players who injured opponents, according to a league investigation. The scandal resulted in plenty of hand-wringing over the sport’s relationship with brutality when it was trying to convince the public that it was taking seriously the mounting concerns about head injuries.In March 2012, Williams received an indefinite suspension, the harshest of the penalties doled out, which included a one-year suspension for Saints Coach Sean Payton. Williams was reinstated in 2013.In the years since, Williams, 60, has worked his way back into the defensive coordinator role seemingly without having lost much of his brashness or bravado. On HBO’s “Hard Knocks: Training Camp with the Cleveland Browns” this past summer, Williams became something of a celebrity among Browns supporters, who took to his intensity and vulgar tirades. Williams liked to end defensive huddles with the phrase, “Come get some.”“He’s not here to make you feel comfortable,” said the former linebacker Jo-Lonn Dunbar, who played for Williams in New Orleans and St. Louis. “He’s willing to ruffle your feathers.”Williams is indeed a throwback to the era of football coach as force of nature. Gase’s introduction to the Jets was judged by some as notably subdued. But Williams thunders into a locker room like a gale.In Cleveland, where he was defensive coordinator for two seasons, he warned parents about bringing young children to training camp because of his propensity to yell obscenities. He admonished reporters for slouching in chairs. He trash-talked the matinee-idol quarterback Baker Mayfield.Dunbar said practices were intensified by Williams’s insistence that any loose ball be treated like a turnover, at all times.“Anytime a ball hits the ground, he wants you to pick it up,” Dunbar said. “Anytime a ball is overthrown, he wants you to act like it was an interception and return it.”Dunbar added that players eventually became “conditioned to go after the ball.”It strikes some as just the sort of Type A personality that can light a fire under the Jets, who struggled under Coach Todd Bowles.“They need a guy that can come and crack the whip — teach them football but also be very demanding,” said Bart Scott, a former Jets linebacker who is now a co-host of “The CMB Show” on WFAN. “He can teach them and give them the tools to be successful in different situations.”The Jets have declined to make Williams available for interviews until after Gase’s full staff has been assembled. Gase also hired Dowell Loggains from the Miami Dolphins to be offensive coordinator, and kept the special-teams coordinator Brant Boyer.In a recent interview on a Pro Football Talk podcast, Gase said he had known Williams for more than a decade.“He did his time,” Gase said of Williams and the scandal in New Orleans. “He’s gotten a second chance, he’s done it right, he’s gone and worked extremely hard to do things the right way, and for me or anybody else to hold that over his head, to me, is wrong.”Many Jets players expressed enthusiasm after Williams was hired. Safety Jamal Adams, at the Pro Bowl in Orlando, said he had already been watching videos of Williams’s teams on YouTube.“He’s the best in the business,” Adams said. “I’ve had so many players hit me up to tell me how much I’m going to love Coach Gregg.”One former player who may not share such sentiments is Peyton Manning, who recommended Gase, his former offensive coordinator in Denver, to the Jets. Williams once told a Nashville radio station that he wanted his defenders to put “remember me” hits on Manning, then the quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts.Williams will probably bring at least one significant change to the defensive scheme. The Jets have used a 3-4 (three down linemen, four linebackers) base defense since Eric Mangini arrived in 2006. But Williams is known for his 4-3 format, which emphasizes speed rushers on the outside, something the Jets do not exactly have right now.The team does have more than $100 million in cap space, so there should be flexibility to acquire a defensive end or two to fit Williams’s vision, which relies on the blitz.“They’re going to be probably the most aggressive defense in the N.F.L.,” Dunbar said. “He’s going to bring pressure. He’s going to manufacture pressure.”The Jets tried this approach under Rex Ryan, who took them to two consecutive A.F.C. championship games. It worked until it didn’t. Ryan coached the Jets for six years and was fired after the 2014 season, when he went too 4-12.Williams’s demanding personality will be an adjustment for some players. Dunbar said another difficulty is how much information he throws at his players so they understand more than just their role in the defense — he wants them to know the whole orchestra, not just its parts.“He wants his players to be more like coaches on the field than just robotic players,” Dunbar said. “He wants them to play with instinct and be able to call what they feel.”To Scott, that is the type of coach the Jets need, controversy aside.“He was the best hire available,” Scott said. “You have talented pieces. They just don’t know how to be great.”AdvertisementFeatureAfter decades of resistance to sports gambling, team owners and state officials are laying the groundwork for it — with potentially huge implications.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Najeebah Al-Ghadban. Source photograph: Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images.Supported byBy Bruce SchoenfeldHalf an hour before a preseason hockey game last fall, Ted Leonsis strolled down the concourse of Capital One Arena in Washington, stopping every now and then to pose for someone’s selfie. Leonsis owns both the Washington Capitals, the National Hockey League team, and the arena itself, a squat behemoth that fills a block of Chinatown not far from Ford’s Theater. He also owns other teams that play there, including the Washington Wizards, in the National Basketball Association, and some smaller ones that don’t.Leonsis is easily the most popular sports owner in the nation’s capital, though the Wizards have managed just one division title in his eight seasons and his N.H.L. team underachieved for years. It helps that the Capitals finally won the Stanley Cup last season, the city’s first championship in any major professional league in more than a quarter-century. But Leonsis is also uncommonly friendly to fans. During his customary lap around the arena, he fielded questions from anyone who came up to him. It was hard to imagine many big-league owners doing the same.A middle-aged African-American man in a Capitals jersey approached Leonsis. “What about that gambling thing?” he asked. A few months before, the federal statute prohibiting sports gambling was overturned by the Supreme Court; this was the first home game since a few states, newly liberated to set their own gambling agendas, had implemented laws allowing sports bets. Leonsis has been vocal about his support for legal gambling, and he was full of ideas. One was a sports bar he planned to put inside the arena that would handle bets. It would fit into a space currently occupied by a brewpub, or perhaps displace a fitness center. He envisioned betting windows, like those at a horse track.Sports gambling wasn’t yet legal in the District of Columbia, and until it was, there would be no betting windows. But Leonsis is confident that they will come. “Eventually,” he told me, the bar “will be somewhere that fans can congregate and watch games and bet on the games in whatever way they want to” — whether at the windows or on hand-held devices. Leonsis would outsource the bookmaking, because owning a team while taking bets on its games would be perceived as a conflict of interest (and probably be illegal). Instead, he would simply offer a site for eating, drinking and more gambling. “Except that I want to outlaw the word ‘gambling,’ ” he said. “Maybe call it ‘interactive wagering.’ When you hear ‘gambling,’ you think of Tony Soprano — ‘I’m with my bookie.’ People who bet on N.C.A.A. pools at their church, they don’t think they’re gambling. They are.”Leonsis, who held various executive positions at America Online from 1994 to 2007, says he doesn’t gamble — not on sports or on anything else. Yet he has risked both his reputation and his capital on the future of sports wagering. He owns a stake in DraftKings, a daily sports fantasy company that has segued into online gambling. He has invested in Sportradar, which delivers, at high speed, information on games in progress to bookmaking websites, creating the sort of advantage enjoyed by Wall Street traders who, in his words, “get a quarter of a second more to say ‘buy that stock.’ ” He owns part of WinView, which holds numerous patents for various aspects of in-game gambling. He hopes to fill the schedule of the NBC Sports Washington cable channel, of which he owns a third, with chatter about point spreads and gambling opportunities. “Like CNBC,” he says.Gambling on sports became explicitly legal in Nevada in 1949. Until recently, the prospect of it spreading beyond that state’s borders was treated as potentially ruinous by the franchise owners and commissioners who ruled over sports. They feared that it would alter the relationship between fans and their favorite teams, and that gambling would expose athletes to underworld characters trying to manipulate games. Eventually, the cautionary tale went, the competition in even the biggest leagues would be indistinguishable from the manufactured plotlines of pro wrestling or old-time roller derby. Gambling on sports was already happening, of course — at Las Vegas casinos, on illegal internet sites, at the corner bar — yet somehow that hadn’t made it more palatable. “Even five years ago,” says Steve Murray, a partner with Leonsis in the venture-capital firm that has invested in many of these businesses, “you would have had a hard time finding a single owner in any of these leagues saying that gambling was a good idea. You wouldn’t have been able to do it.”Since then, attitudes seem to have changed abruptly. It’s now difficult to find anyone inside sports who opposes gambling. In part that’s because the leagues and their investors have come to see how much they stand to gain. But it’s also a result of insiders like Leonsis evangelizing to anyone who would listen: in owners’ meetings, in conversations with sponsors, even with U.S. congressmen during a 2017 gambling conference on Capitol Hill. “He’s a visionary, and he speaks quite eloquently about what the future opportunities are,” says Gary Bettman, the N.H.L.’s commissioner, who until recently strongly opposed gambling on sports. “He has been at the forefront of pushing us to make sure we’re as knowledgeable as we can be. I get emails on this from him daily — more than daily.”Leonsis speaks slowly but exuberantly. His conversation unfolds as logically as a business plan. “What are you so afraid of?” he likes to ask anyone who seems uneasy about gambling. “We’re going to create more jobs. We’re going to generate more taxes.” While pro athletes were once paid poorly enough to make the offers of payoffs enticing, Leonsis argues that a vast majority are today far wealthier than anyone who might tempt them. “I don’t think an N.B.A. player is susceptible to some hustler saying, ‘Shave the points, and here’s $5,000 in hundred-dollar bills,’ ” he says.Leonsis arrived back at his suite shortly after the opening face-off. He sat down in time to see the Boston Bruins score a goal. I mentioned that where sports wagers were now legal, gamblers had surely placed bets both for and against the Capitals. Leonsis wanted his team to win, naturally, even though this preseason game didn’t really count. But he admitted that just the fact that those bets could be made meant that, in a sense, he’d already won.In the middle of the 20th century, television began reframing the way we experience sports. It gave us replays and extended timeouts, pushed World Series games into prime time, scrambled conference affiliations. Through national telecasts and highlights and, later, superstations and cable networks, fans grew intimate with teams many hundreds of miles away. Now gambling is poised to unleash changes just as transformative, and they may come fast. In an October report, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated that a fully developed sports gambling industry in all states would draw $100 billion in bets every year; the congressional National Gambling Impact Study Commission has suggested the figure could be closer to $400 billion. Whatever the size of the jackpot, leagues, teams and broadcasters will want their piece of it. “The players, the sponsors, all the stakeholders in the ecosystem can become beneficiaries of this,” says Peter Guber, an owner of both the Golden State Warriors and the Los Angeles Dodgers.The games we watch are already enhanced by data collected through technological advances. Announcers tell us how hard baseballs are hit and how far they travel, or how many miles a particularly active soccer player has run. Because such derivatives create new opportunities for betting, we’re sure to see many more of them. (The N.B.A. has been advertising for a gambling data analyst on the employment website Glassdoor.) Hockey hasn’t traditionally generated much in the way of metrics, but in order to learn who is skating the fastest or shooting the hardest, the N.H.L. is preparing to record the movements of every player during every game and even put a chip inside the puck. “Leagues are building a fire hose of data around their product,” says Chris Grove, an analyst who consults for gaming companies and investors. “And the logical recipient of that data is the betting industry.”What are the chances that someone homers in the next two innings? Or kicks a field goal in the next five minutes? Imagine those odds sliding across the bottom of your screen like the CNN news crawl. As a sports media consultant and former N.B.A. executive named Ed Desser puts it, “How does the production and presentation of telecasts change to accommodate gambling?” Explicit references to betting might seem jarring during a Masters broadcast, which has the feel of a conversation in a Ritz-Carlton lobby. But Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson’s made-for-TV showdown in November, which included such information, gave viewers more reasons to care about what happened.Real-time digital wagering has created betting opportunities that don’t rely on the score; the appeal of a game in which the Patriots are up by 30 points in the fourth quarter is altogether different if you can put money down right then on how many more first downs they’ll get. As viewers create their own narrative tension by betting on pieces of the action, broadcast rights fees will increase and franchise values soar. That tension could also be artificially created and exploited by event promoters too. “If you’re the U.F.C. and you have an absolute dog of a fight on a major card for whatever reason, you could use odds and promotions around betting to drive fan interest,” Grove points out. “You could use betting proactively.”Legal gambling also opens the door to an entirely new source of sponsorship income. In English soccer, 26 of the 44 teams that compete in the sport’s top echelons wear shirts festooned with the names of bookmaking sites. Don’t be surprised to see them soon in the N.B.A. or Major League Soccer. Games will be held in venues with names like the Bet365 Bowl or Caesars Coliseum and be analyzed by touts on TV and subscription podcasts. “As you create more interest in these things, people want more information,” Desser says. “And they’re always looking for an edge.”Perhaps nobody sees more dollar signs on the horizon than legislators. It remains uncertain how quickly states will continue to pass new gambling laws, or how broad or restrictive those will be, but few dispute the potential impact. “I was talking to some economic development people from Alabama,” says Jack Evans, a District of Columbia council member who introduced a sports gambling bill there that is expected to become law in March. “They were asking how they could raise money. I told them: ‘Put in sports gambling and you can pay off all your debts on the Alabama-Auburn football game alone. One game, Alabama and Auburn. You’d make billions.’ ”Leonsis has a stake in nearly all of these possibilities. He envisions simulcasts of every Wizards and Capitals game on NBC Sports Washington that will include a steady stream of betting information. He controls two teams in the resurrected Arena Football League and is pitching networks a gambling-centric concept for its games that’s too overt for the stodgy N.F.L., at least for now. Sportradar’s chief executive told me he expects its $2.4 billion valuation to quintuple in three years with the opening of the U.S. market, which will mean the same for Leonsis’s stake. And if franchise values rise because of fans’ increased engagement in the sports they follow, Leonsis’s N.H.L. and N.B.A. teams could be his most profitable gambling plays of all. In time, sports betting may generate its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos, some forward-thinking entrepreneur who comes to define the zeitgeist of his generation. For now, though, the person whose odds are as great as anyone’s to profit from this emerging industry is Leonsis, a 62-year-old billionaire who has been around since the early days of the World Wide Web.The history of regulated gambling in America goes back to 1931, when Nevada opened the nation’s first casinos. The state was on the verge of bankruptcy, a predicament that motivated it to defy the prevailing national sentiment against gambling. “Any state could have done it,” says Anthony Cabot, who teaches gaming law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “But no others did.” Just as pro football was starting to thrive, Nevada broadened its gambling law to regulate sports bets. Over the next half-century, American attitudes toward gambling evolved. In 1978, with great fanfare, casinos opened in Atlantic City. A decade later, Congress passed a law permitting them on land owned by Native American tribes. By 2003, a Gallup Poll revealed, nearly half of all Americans had played the lottery in the previous 12 months; almost a third had visited a casino. But just 10 percent had bet on a pro sports event, mostly because there were few legal ways to do it.Nobody tried to legalize sports betting outside Nevada until Chris Christie. By the time Christie became New Jersey’s governor in 2010, Atlantic City was in trouble. The novelty appeal of its casinos had faded. Hotel bookings had plummeted — and tax-generating casino revenues with them. Christie saw sports betting as a way to counter those losses. His first year in office, he pushed a referendum that would allow it at any racetrack or casino in the state. The referendum passed, and Christie signed it into law.There was only one problem. Through the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 — which, in a somewhat curious twist, had been sponsored by New Jersey’s own Bill Bradley, the former N.B.A. great turned senator — the federal government banned sports gambling throughout the country, beyond a few existing manifestations that were allowed to continue. Those included betting on bicycle racing in New Mexico and golf in Wyoming, several sports-based lotteries, horse racing, jai alai and the bookmaking inside Nevada’s casinos.In 2014, New Jersey’s referendum was challenged in court by the N.C.A.A. The major sports leagues joined the suit as plaintiffs. But Christie had calculated that the Supreme Court wouldn’t uphold a law banning a recreational pursuit in 49 states that had been legal for decades in the 50th, and he was right. The court, analysts noted, wanted to make a show of limiting federal jurisdiction. “They just happened to pick a gambling law to do so,” Cabot says. Last May’s verdict in what had been renamed Murphy v. N.C.A.A., after Christie’s successor, Phil Murphy, surprised the gambling industry. “You’d be amazed how many casino operators didn’t see it coming,” says Greg Carlin, co-founder and chief executive of Rush Street Gaming, which owns casinos in Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois. It didn’t surprise Leonsis, though. He’d been planning on it for years.Leonsis dates his personal revelation about gambling to November 2015, when he found himself visiting the remote southwest coast of Scotland. His daughter, who lived in London, had a serious boyfriend, and both families had flown in to spend Thanksgiving weekend at a manor house owned by the boyfriend’s parents. On a clear day, Leonsis was told, you could see Ireland across the water. He never could confirm that, though, because the weather was never clear. The basketball and hockey seasons were underway back home, but the house had no internet or satellite reception, so Leonsis couldn’t follow his teams. It was foggy and cold. “There was nothing to do,” he says.The closest village of any size, Campbeltown, was 40 minutes away. One morning, they all drove in for lunch. Nobody seemed to be around. “The whole town is like two blocks long,” Leonsis says. “And there’s one restaurant and a pharmacy. And then we saw one place that had some life to it.” Inside a storefront, a crowd was making noise. It was the betting parlor, Leonsis learned. The phrase didn’t carry any connotation of disrepute, as it would in America. “It was just, ‘This is where you go and watch a game and see your friends and hang out,’ ” he said. “It was the ‘Cheers’ of Campbeltown.”From Scotland, Leonsis went to London. Driving through his daughter’s neighborhood, he noticed one betting parlor after another. “Like in America, where you’d have a Starbucks,” he says. He investigated and found that you could bet on sports at 8,500 outlets in the United Kingdom. As a comparison, he looked up Domino’s pizza and saw that it had roughly 5,500 stores across the United States. “For me, that was the beginning of, ‘Hey, this is a true consumer phenomenon,’ ” he says. The parlors seemed inviting. They weren’t seedy haunts for professional gamblers. “This is not Off-Track Betting,” Leonsis says. “This is Starbucks or Domino’s. This is popularized and accepted in the most remote places and the most centrally located places. If you wanted to find a proxy of what could happen here, you just had to look at Campbeltown and London.”Adam Silver, who is now the N.B.A.’s commissioner, had been doing just that. From 1998 to 2006, Silver ran the league’s video production and programming. On frequent business trips abroad, he couldn’t help noticing how pervasive gambling was. Stadiums had betting kiosks beside their snack bars. “There was this enormous legalized infrastructure in place,” Silver says. Yet somehow, leagues and teams hadn’t been corrupted. In fact, they were thriving. Silver’s boss at the time, David Stern, was a lawyer who had come to the sport during college basketball’s betting scandals of the 1960s. Throughout his tenure, Stern remained opposed to gambling — he later changed his mind — and for years even refused to hold league meetings and other events in Las Vegas. “But the opportunity seemed fairly obvious to me,” Silver says.In 2014, Silver succeeded Stern as N.B.A. commissioner. That year, in a New York Times Op-Ed, he made an argument that did not differ much from those advocating the legalization of marijuana. “Despite legal restrictions, sports betting is widespread,” he wrote. “Because there are few legal options available, those who wish to bet resort to illicit bookmaking operations and shady offshore websites.” Why not bring the action into the light, he proposed, where it could be regulated, and the movement of betting lines and the sums of money monitored?Earlier that fall, the N.B.A. signed a nine-year, $24 billion television rights deal. At the league’s board of governors meeting in New York, Leonsis, who was chairman of its media committee, presented it to the rest of the owners. Even as he celebrated the deal, he cautioned that such fees were unlikely to grow, though the cost of operating teams inevitably would. “We have to find new pots of gold,” he said.Leonsis believed he had found them on that trip to the United Kingdom. You can hold your nose all you want, he later told his colleagues, but gambling offered a viable and wholly untapped source of revenue for the N.B.A. Leonsis can be almost courtly in negotiations, and he was polite when he met resistance. Privately, though, he shook his head. How could you ignore such an opportunity, ready to be taken advantage of as soon as the law allowed? What are you so afraid of?For decades, sports gambling tended to be a static experience. You bet on a team and handed money to somebody, and maybe got a slip of paper in return. Then you waited to find out if you were right. That changed when three American options traders moved to Antigua in the mid-1990s to create an online gambling business they named World Sports Exchange. Instead of offering point spreads, World Sports Exchange operated like a commodities market. Before tipoff, options on the favored Lakers, for example, might cost $60 each. Options on the Knicks, the underdogs, might sell for $40. At the end of the game, the options on the losing team would become worthless, while the options on the winning team would each pay out $100.But here was the novelty: You didn’t have to wait until the game was over to cash in. If the Lakers scored the first eight points, the value of that $60 option might grow to, say, $72. You could sell it and pocket your $12 gain. You might then invest in the Knicks at a discount. Or you might wait for the price to fall and buy another option on the Lakers. You could buy and sell options, on either team or both, throughout the game. Once you’d started, it was hard to stop until the game ended. It was exhausting. It was also great fun. And even more than the other bookmakers operating beyond U.S. borders, which were handling traditional bets, it seemed to threaten the monopoly on sports gambling that Nevada’s casinos had long enjoyed.I met one of those traders, Haden Ware, under a thatched roof in the Caribbean in early 2000. He was drinking beer and eating lobster salad. Steve Schillinger, a partner at World Sports Exchange, later confided to me that he and Ware were each making more than $1 million a year. Yet they were miserable. The Interstate Wire Act of 1961 had outlawed taking bets over telephone lines. In that era of dial-up internet access, that’s exactly what World Sports Exchange was doing. Online gambling was “especially pernicious,” in the words of Jon Kyl, the U.S. senator from Arizona. “You get up in the morning and log on to your computer and start to gamble. It plays to the addictive nature of many people, especially kids.” Quoting an unnamed Harvard professor, Kyl called it “the crack cocaine of gambling.” A conservative Republican, Kyl introduced specific legislation against internet gambling and vowed to indict expats taking bets online. In 1998, 21 U.S. citizens were charged with Wire Act violations. Among them were Ware, Schillinger and Jay Cohen, another partner. Weary of living in exile, Cohen flew home. He was convicted and served 18 months in prison. Janet Reno, the U.S. Attorney General, backed Kyl’s efforts. So did casinos, sports leagues and gambling interest groups — just about everyone, in fact, except some Indian tribes. Even the lobbyist being paid by World Sports Exchange acknowledged that the opponents of digital gambling had a point. “The casinos worked a long time to establish legitimacy,” he told me.Eventually, World Sports Exchange was overtaken by better-funded rivals. It ceased operations in 2013. That same day, Schillinger committed suicide. After serving his sentence, Cohen disappeared to Europe. By then, though, their insight that betting doesn’t have to stop when play begins had revolutionized the industry; what DraftKings and its competitors are currently doing in New Jersey, and what companies like Betfair and Bet365 do in England, could not exist without it.Since the demise of World Sports Exchange, sports betting on various hand-held devices has proliferated. And because smartphones and tablets routinely capture the details of each transaction, proponents argue that games are actually better protected against manipulation when digital betting is legal. “If there was a huge bet placed against a team two hours before an announcement that its star player wouldn’t be participating, that is something that should cause us to investigate,” Silver says. “And it’s something that historically we wouldn’t have known.”For many N.B.A. owners — and some in other leagues as well — the conversion began in 2014 with Silver’s Op-Ed and his argument that legalization actually offered more protection, not less, from the unsavory characters who might try to influence players. Europe was proving to be a test case, and its teams were thriving. Now Leonsis has come along, telling owners that their franchises would gain in value because gambling, like fantasy leagues, gives fans another reason to be engrossed in a sport.“Ted was able to articulate the value proposition of not just the betting, but the deepening of the engagement,” Guber says. Rather than customers, Leonsis thinks of fans as an audience. “He understood that audiences want experiences,” Guber says. “This gives them a chance to walk away telling their own story — ‘I saw this opportunity, I recognized what this player would be able to accomplish.’ When you have a tool that makes an audience more of a participant than a passenger, it’s a very vital and vibrant element.”There are risks inherent in legalizing sports gambling, Guber believes. But after talking with Leonsis, he became convinced that its opportunities far outweighed them. The N.B.A. was still a plaintiff when the Supreme Court heard the gambling case in late 2017, but by then Guber was among the many owners who were rooting for New Jersey to win.One afternoon last October, Terry Link drove from his home outside Chicago to Springfield, the Illinois state capital. An informational presentation about gambling was scheduled in the House of Representatives the following day, and Link, a Democrat who serves as assistant majority leader in the Illinois Senate, wanted to attend. Since he was first elected in 1996, he has sponsored several gambling bills. Not one became law. “I’m still waiting to get one signed,” he says ruefully.Before dinner that evening, he stopped into a bar to meet Jeremy Kudon, a lobbyist whom DraftKings and its competitor FanDuel have hired to help persuade legislators to pass laws allowing digital gambling. After ordering a soda, Link told Kudon that Illinois casinos hoped to use sports betting to get new customers into their buildings. He reminded Kudon that casinos have generated plenty of tax money for the state. Because of that, Link said, he wouldn’t favor a bill that would allow gamblers to undermine them by “placing bets from the couches in their living rooms.”This was a problem for Kudon, because bets placed from living-room couches are exactly what his clients need to survive. Kudon argued that gamblers were already betting from their couches, but doing so on illegal websites. And the state was missing out on its cut.DraftKings and FanDuel, whose valuations are both estimated to exceed $1 billion, were founded on the same idea: curate a limitless number of fantasy leagues for profit, generated by participation fees, and let customers choose new players every day. For many fans, watching games quickly became the equivalent of monitoring their investment portfolios, except the investments were bets on individual players. Eric Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general at the time, thought that sounded a lot like gambling.Games of skill are legal in every state; you can pay to participate in fishing or bowling competitions, for example, and win cash prizes. What you can’t do is bet on who you think will win those competitions. The fantasy sites argued, somewhat tenuously, that constructing a winning team is more like fishing than knowing who is good at fishing. Schneiderman disagreed. In 2015, he shut down both sites and fined the companies. At that point, DraftKings and FanDuel began working to get bills passed in state legislatures that would certify fantasy sports as legal.Soon after, Leonsis bought part of DraftKings. He tends to characterize troubled companies in one of two ways — as either “falling angels,” which eventually rise again, or as “falling knives,” which don’t. In DraftKings, he saw a falling angel. He anticipated that digital sports betting would become legal, and he agreed with Jason Robins, the DraftKings chief executive, that the gaming-industry giants everyone assumed would dominate the U.S. market — the English bookmaker William Hill or maybe Bally’s or Caesars — were actually at a disadvantage. “We have a big database of customers that we know from research are already betting on sports, mostly with black-market websites,” Robins says. “And we have a brand that is much more identified with winning money and betting on sports than any of them that we’re competing with.”Last summer, DraftKings partnered with a casino, as New Jersey’s law requires, and became the first company to begin taking digital bets. Since then, it has done more online business than any other bookmaker. Its ads blanket cable networks in New Jersey. “Get ready for thousands of ways to bet!” they shout — and they’re not exaggerating. One DraftKings executive estimates that the company’s app averages 45,000 to 55,000 different propositions for gamblers to consider every day.But sports gambling laws enacted in most other states have restricted digital activity. Mississippi allows it, but only if the gamblers are physically inside a casino. Delaware’s law has not yet allowed any digital betting at all. Some casinos plan to leverage their brands online, but many regard digital gambling as a threat. “We have hundreds of millions of dollars invested in our casinos,” says Dan Kehl, the chief executive of Elite Casino Resorts, whose family has been in the gambling business in Iowa since 1990.Kehl backs a bill that would require anyone who wants to bet on sports to first register at one of Iowa’s 19 casinos. That wouldn’t work in larger states, he acknowledges, but no one in Iowa is more than an hour’s drive from a casino. Registered gamblers could bet digitally, though on only a limited selection of propositions. “The question is, how far can we let the mobile go?” Kehl says. That troubles Leonsis, not just because DraftKings might not get the right to operate profitably there, but because nobody will. If gamblers betting on illegal sites can’t be persuaded to bet legally, much of the windfall that investors and politicians like Terry Link are anticipating won’t materialize. It’s not enough that states pass laws legalizing sports betting, Leonsis explains; they have to pass the right law. “The only way that gambling doesn’t work,” he says, “is if the revenue projections are off. If it turns out that all those estimates we hear are wildly inaccurate.”Despite Kudon’s best efforts, laws that Leonsis considers favorable have been a difficult sell, mostly because of political pressure from casinos. In Springfield that evening, Link acknowledged that he personally favored digital sites partnering with casinos and paying them fees. But, he told Kudon, the Illinois casinos insist that whatever fees they’d get wouldn’t make up for the loss of all those potential roulette players. At that, Kudon rolled his eyes. “The gamblers that we’re talking about aren’t going to casinos,” he said. “They’ll never set foot in Rivers,” a casino in Des Plaines, Ill., “because they can bet on sports on these illegal sites. So let’s encourage them to go on DraftKings or FanDuel instead, and Rivers will get a benefit.” To Kudon, the mathematics are clear. “The state gets its licensing fee, and now we’ve gotten rid of the black market,” he said. “That seems like a win to everyone.”If Link’s bill allowed hand-held gambling, as Kudon fantasized, travelers might even make bets while changing planes at O’Hare airport. He urged Link to consider what that would mean for Illinois, the millions of tax dollars that might be generated if gamblers didn’t have to travel to a casino to bet. Link stroked his chin. “I don’t think there’s a right answer yet,” Link said. “You have to look at all the factors involved. In New Jersey, nobody wants to go to the Boardwalk anymore. All the casinos there are going kaput.”He sighed. Common ground seemed a long way away. “Listen, there’s no such thing as a perfect bill,” he said. “The reason we don’t pass these bills comes down to one word: ‘greed.’ Nobody wants part of the pie — they want the whole damn pie.”Last July, Silver announced that the N.B.A. had, in a sponsorship deal, granted MGM Resorts the right to use league logos and data. Even the N.H.L.’s Bettman has come to terms with gambling. “We’ve had a very practical approach,” he told me in his office a few months later. The previous afternoon, the N.H.L. announced its own deal with MGM, though the payment involved was said to be far smaller than the N.B.A.’s.But gambling’s greatest impact, at least proportionally, could come in the new professional leagues it spawns and the moribund ones it helps to resurrect. The Arena Football League once included 19 teams spread across the continent; last year there were four. Leonsis owns the Washington and Baltimore franchises, which makes him not only the most powerful owner in the league but the only person preventing its demise. He has positioned it as an ideal entertainment vehicle for the next generation. That includes gambling, of course. Arena Football averages a touchdown every six plays, Leonsis notes, as well as 98 points a game. “Lots of data generated,” he says — and a multitude of possible bets.Greater than $30 billion has been bet legally on football since 1992, according to the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. That’s about 50 percent more than on basketball, and double the amount bet on baseball. Leonsis wants to expand the A.F.L. to six franchises, and eventually to 12. But his vision mandates a network partner that will market the game as the anti-N.F.L.: informal, expressive and gambling-friendly. It doesn’t matter that the league, as currently constituted, has almost no history, he says. Your favorite team will be the one you have money on at the moment.On a private flight to New York last fall, Leonsis ran through a pitch he planned to show Sean McManus, who runs the sports department at CBS. He envisioned fast-paced telecasts of A.F.L. games on an affiliated sports channel. But as the plane landed in Teterboro, N.J., he confided that he doesn’t believe CBS will end up investing. Its executives are leery of jeopardizing their relationship with the N.F.L., he said, and that’s probably wise. The N.F.L. most likely wouldn’t look kindly on one of its primary partners’ televising another football league’s games. As usual, though, Leonsis was looking further ahead.“If the N.F.L. is smart, they should want CBS to do this,” he said. “See how far they can take it. Let the A.F.L. be the canary in the coal mine. See what works and what doesn’t work, and then they can pull back from there on their own telecasts.” He paused. “CBS is going to be very nice to us today, but I don’t know if they’re ready for this. We’re going to blow their minds.”An hour later, he was still stuck in New Jersey traffic. He also hadn’t stopped talking about gambling. But while his ideas had the potential to be wildly lucrative, I was struck by how little had actually happened in the months since the Supreme Court ruling. The betting parlor in his arena remained theoretical. DraftKings was thriving in New Jersey, but it hadn’t yet been licensed in another state. Sportradar’s explosive growth still existed only in the imagination of its chief executive. And most of the gambling laws being considered in state legislatures included severe limitations on digital play. As a result, in most states that have passed gambling laws, early revenues haven’t met projections. The growth process is slow, Leonsis admitted, and unpredictable. Yet he remained optimistic. “At AOL, it took us 10 years to get to 5 million” users, he said. “Then it took us five years to get to 30 million.”Just then, his car passed a billboard for a casino that read “Fire Your Bookie.” Leonsis pulled out his phone. “Look,” he said. “I’ll show you.” The DraftKings app was pulsing with offers. There were odds on who would win that night’s N.F.L. game and by how much, but also bets on total points on various games, odds on tennis matches, even European basketball. I was scrolling through them when we entered the Holland Tunnel and everything vanished. “We just passed into New York,” Leonsis said. “So now it won’t work.”A moment before, I’d been a legal gambler. Now, if I tried to place a bet from the same seat in the same car, I’d be breaking the law. I didn’t say anything, but Leonsis must have read the incredulity in my expression. He shrugged.“It’s a work in progress,” he said.Bruce Schoenfeld is frequent contributor to the magazine. He last wrote about Mickey Callaway, the manager of the New York Mets.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTwo historically black neighborhoods lie in the shadow of the Atlanta stadium hosting this year’s Super Bowl, but the riches its creation represents? Just out of reach.Photographs and Text by Dustin ChambersATLANTA — There is a history of broken promises here, in English Avenue and Vine City, two neighborhoods near Mercedes-Benz Stadium, which will host the Super Bowl on Sunday. Built with more than $700 million in public funds for construction and future maintenance, the approximately $1.5 billion stadium opened in grand fashion in 2017 near these historically black neighborhoods, two of the poorest in the Southeast.Before this stadium, there was the Georgia Dome, which was developed in the early 1990s. An entire neighborhood, Lightning, was razed to make way for that stadium, which was then demolished to make way for Mercedes-Benz Stadium. In the Georgia Dome’s life span — it was home to the N.F.L.’s Atlanta Falcons from 1992 to 2016 — residents of English Avenue and Vine City kept waiting to see the revitalization city officials had said would come. In May 2014, construction began on Mercedes-Benz Stadium, which promised to be one of the nation’s most awe-inspiring sports facilities. As it rose, two black churches were displaced and tens of millions of dollars were directed toward efforts and organizations to help the local residents.A lifelong Atlantan, I began photographing the full spectrum of residents’ lives in English Avenue and Vine City shortly after the stadium broke ground: from the joys of ribbon cuttings for new parks and children blowing out candles on birthday cakes to the sorrows of funerals, house fires and people grappling with heroin addiction.Along the way, I met Chiliquila Ogletree, a United States Army veteran and matriarch of a family that has lived in English Avenue for five generations. One of her earliest memories of living here was watching the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s public funeral service.In recent years, she has taken guardianship of six grandchildren — a struggle all its own. But with them all in a house without running water, Ogletree has also become a master of efficiency and economy to ensure everyone is bathed, clothed and out the door by 7:10 a.m.Arthur Blank, the Atlanta Falcons owner and a Home Depot co-founder, has invested millions of dollars in the neighborhood through the Arthur M. Blank Family Foundation. There is a new job training center and the @Promise Youth Center, and some homeowners have had their homes repaired through programs like Habitat for Humanity. With only a small fraction of the population owning their homes, and most residents older adults, an affordable housing complex for seniors that is under construction may offer a higher quality of life to those homeowners who do not have the money to maintain their own property. But it also means those homes may soon be vacant, making the land they occupy ready for development. New development typically raises property taxes and rents, and often forces out community residents, threatening their fragile economic existence.On Sunday, as more than 70,000 football fans pack into Atlanta’s Westside, exhaust will billow from the cars and pickup trucks filling the many lots that separate the stadium and neighborhood residents. Ogletree’s mother, Elaine Minter, 71, will be watching the game from her room at her daughter’s home. “Yeah, I look at the Super Bowl every year,” Minter said. She added, “Ain’t no way I’m going down to no damn stadium.”After the game, a winning team will emerge, its colors will be paraded in the streets, and then it will be Monday — just another day for the people for whom English Avenue and Vine City are simply called “home.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs another N.F.L. season winds to a close, the New England Patriots find themselves in a familiar position: favorites in the Super Bowl. But it wasn’t certain they would hold the honor until nearly the last minute.For much of the season, the Patriots were considered a tier below the best teams; for months, that group included the Saints, the Chiefs and the Rams. Throughout the season, bookmakers offering early Super Bowl wagering made the N.F.C. entrant — whomever it turned out to be — a 3-point favorite over a generic A.F.C. representative.As the big game got closer, however, oddsmakers began offering odds on hypothetical Super Bowl matchups. The Rams were generally listed as a 1-point favorite over the Patriots as recently as a week ago.Then the teams played their conference championship game.“Everything is about public perception: What have you done for me lately?” said Scott Cooley, a spokesman for the online gambling site BetDSI. “As we saw the Rams game unfold, they were down the entire game, they benefited from an egregious miscall. Maybe this team is not as strong as we thought they were.“The Patriots were dominant on the road over a Chiefs squad that was favored. The manner in which the last two quarters unfolded: marching down the field and scoring in overtime — the Rams won in less convincing fashion.”Immediately after the Super Bowl matchup was confirmed, many bookmakers made Rams-Patriots a pick ’em game. Bettors reacted quickly."We opened at even,” said Marco Blume, trading director at Pinnacle Sports. “Then the action came almost immediately on the Patriots.” All that action has led Pinnacle to recalculate, and make the Patriots a 2-point favorite.“We know the Patriots are a public team,” Cooley said. “They are always going to be wagered on by the Average Joe bettor. The Patriots, the Cowboys, the Packers. They are going to blindly bet on those teams.”Cooley identified the key moment when the Patriots started gaining respect as the divisional round against the Chargers. “Smart pro bettors were betting the Chargers, though the public still liked the Patriots,” he said. “The spread went from Patriots by 5, down to 3½. And the Pats crushed them.”At that point, casual fans and smart bettors alike started to realize that “this isn’t a feeble Patriots team,” Cooley said. “Maybe Gronk isn’t doing the damage he once did, but you’d be hard-pressed to bet against them.”Could the line, now 2 at most places, keep moving to Patriots by 3 or even 4 by a week from Sunday? Probably not, several bookmakers said.“We’re going to reach peak on the Patriots soon,” Blume said. “Sharp customers may look to get a bargain on the Rams. People are waiting. The sharps have a number in their heads, and as soon as they see a chance, they will pounce on you.”The Patriots’ current status as 2-point favorites defies computer rankings, though, which are the basis of most lines. In Jeff Sagarin’s main ranking, the Patriots are a mere four-hundredths of a point better than the Rams. In his Predictor rating, in which many bettors put even more stock, the Rams are actually a half-point better.But the bets keep coming in on New England.“People love Tom Brady,” Blume said.It wasn’t always this way. In the first Super Bowl of the Brady era, in February 2002, the Patriots were 14-point underdogs to the 14-2 St. Louis Rams. The Patriots won anyway.Bettors learned. The Patriots have been Super Bowl favorites six times in seven games since then, ranging from 2½ points to 12. In one game, against the Seahawks after the 2014 season, the line was even. The Pats won four of those seven games, but covered the spread in only two of them.Regardless of who wins on Feb. 3 in Atlanta, one thing seems sure: Points will be scored.The over-under on the game is between 57 and 58, potentially the highest in Super Bowl history. The previous record was 57, for Atlanta-New England two years ago and New Orleans-Indianapolis in 2010.Thanks to rule changes designed to protect players, the trend in football has been toward higher scoring games; over-unders in the 1960s were generally in the 30s. But that is not the only factor. Both of this year’s teams are seen as offensive powerhouses with slightly suspect defenses.“If it was Bears-Ravens, we’d have a total in the 40s,” Cooley said.Don’t expect a move into the 60s, however. Blume suggested it had topped out already. “I expect it to close a little bit lower,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWith issues of race percolating in the N.F.L., several players reflect on Martin Luther King Jr. and his protest movement.By Ken BelsonATLANTA — It is doubtful that the N.F.L. owners understood, when they decided early in 2016 to play the Super Bowl here, how the city of Atlanta, as the cradle of the civil rights movement, would serve as a natural forum for the many complicated social and racial issues that have roiled the league in recent years.Now, many players are showing that the moment is not lost on them.On Tuesday, Devin McCourty, a team captain on the New England Patriots, and several of his teammates boarded a bus to pay homage at the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park in the Sweet Auburn neighborhood of Atlanta.“Today, when we have a little time off, guys are searching for something to do so they’re not just sitting in a hotel room,” McCourty said Tuesday. “With this game, everything is focused on playing Sunday. But when you step back and think about it, what better way to be on this stage, with this platform, but also to get a big dose of what’s really important.”Often, the Super Bowl city is merely a prop for the game and parties. The Patriots, who face the Los Angeles Rams on Sunday, have played for the championship in Minneapolis, Houston and Glendale in the past five years. But Atlanta, and what it has stood for, resonates on a deeper level in light of contemporary issues in the league.McCourty saw that. He is one of the leaders of the Players Coalition, a nonprofit group that formed to improve social justice and racial equality. It was organized even before the kneeling protests against racism and police brutality initiated by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in the 2016 season.The Patriots’ visit to King’s birthplace, his church and a visitor’s center was ad hoc; McCourty wanted to go and eventually an invitation was extended to his teammates. Ten more signed up.Players in the Super Bowl rarely get out to see the sights, but this group, with the issues they champion so embroidered in the dialogue of the N.F.L., said they were determined to make Atlanta’s civil rights history part of their experience.“Any time I come to the South, I think of my parents,” said Matthew Slater, a wide receiver on the Patriots whose parents grew up in Mississippi before schools were integrated. “This is pretty surreal being here. It makes you realize there are things in life that are much bigger than football. At the end of the day, life is so much bigger than what happens in that game on Sunday.”This season, the clamor over the protests largely faded as only a handful of players — Kenny Stills of the Miami Dolphins among them — continued to kneel during the anthem. And before the season began, the N.F.L. backed off a plan to penalize players who do so.Still, the debate about the protests and their effect on the league has not been resolved. Kaepernick and another player who knelt, Eric Reid, have cases pending against the N.F.L. accusing it of colluding to keep them off teams in retaliation.And the choice of Gladys Knight to sing the national anthem at the Super Bowl brought the issue back into the spotlight because of comments she had made taking a swipe at Kaepernick and other players who did not stand for the anthem. “It is unfortunate that our national anthem has been dragged into this debate when the distinctive senses of the national anthem and fighting for justice should each stand alone,” she said in a statement to news organizations.The N.F.L. also abruptly canceled a news conference with the halftime act, Maroon 5. The events are normally controversy-free. But several pop stars said they would not perform with the band because of the league’s stance on the protests during the playing of the anthem.The league is also on the defensive because the number of minority head coaches fell by half, to four, after the latest round of firings at the end of the season.McCourty and his teammates seemed eager to move on from such controversies and focus on the work they are doing to affect change.“For a time, it was about the anthem, but really, it had nothing to do with the issues in our country,” said McCourty, who off the field has fought for juvenile justice reform. “With the anthem, people would just see, is he taking a knee, is he in the locker room. But for players, we didn’t care about that. We care about doing things that help students, help youth, help people in the community.”In many ways, the struggle between trying to effect change through protest and the work of lobbying elected officials and working with social advocacy groups was foreshadowed by Dr. King more than a half-century ago.In the visitor center across the street from the reflecting pool where King and his wife, Coretta, are interred, Devin McCourty’s twin brother, Jason, a cornerback on the Patriots, was watching a video of King’s efforts, in 1968, to boost the wages of sanitation workers in Memphis. As the video illustrated, King was assassinated there and his widow ended up holding the peaceful march through the city that her husband had planned.“You start to realize that as important is football is, you start to get married families and have kids, there are bigger things that surround us,” he said. “Though there’s a ton of work still to do, being in this museum and seeing how different times were makes you realize there was some great work done. You didn’t realize how bad it was.”The players took in the magnitude of the moment. After listening to a park ranger talk about the sanctuary in Ebenezer Baptist Church, where King was a co-pastor, the players got out of the pews, formed a circle in front of the podium where King gave his sermons, held hands, closed their eyes and prayed.“Let’s just let this sink in,” said Jack Easterby, a coach who helped organize the excursion. “We will tell our children that standing in front of Dr. King’s church, that it hasn’t always been the way it is now.”Another reminder of the tension between protest and change was on display a few miles away, at the High Museum of Art. There, an exhibit by Glenn Kaino, a conceptual artist from Los Angeles, brings to life the one-armed salute by the sprinter Tommie Smith at the Olympic Games in Mexico City in 1968. The decision by Smith and his teammate, John Carlos, to raise their clenched fists while wearing black gloves on the winner’s podium remains one of the most iconic gestures in sports and beyond.Through prints, sculpture, video and items from Smith’s archives, the exhibit entitled, With Drawn Arms, shows how Smith, a world-record holder before the Olympics, was outspoken on issues of social injustice well before he raised his fist. It also showed how his views were framed by the media. One set of panels shows the cover of Newsweek magazine from July, 1968, with Smith’s photo and a headline, the Angry Black Athlete.A four-minute trailer for an accompanying documentary played on a screen nearby. In one sequence, Smith and his wife, Delois, are in the White House with President Obama. In another, Smith — who lives about 20 miles from Atlanta — hugs Kaepernick.“Tommie represents a historical moment that has a greater meaning about what went on around it,” said Michael Rooks, the curator of the exhibit, which was extended for the Super Bowl. The controversy over Kaepernick’s decision to kneel “is in the present and volatile and very much a moving target on where it will go, where the NFL will go as a policy, what it will mean for fans.”In a large room with 144 gold-plated casts of Smith’s arm, suspended from the ceiling and arranged like a 100-foot long parabola, Enrique Beher, a cook, and Jaelyn Sims, a 20-year old student, said they were impressed with Smith’s powerful gesture, but also reminded of the debate Kaepernick started in the N.F.L.“People think fighting for civil rights is about being against America,” Sims said. “But kneeling because you want America to be better, how is that not American?”Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew DasU.S. Soccer has invited South America’s 10 soccer federations to bring their national teams to the United States in 2020 for a new intercontinental championship that would run concurrently with that summer’s European Championship.The offer, a package that includes almost $200 million in guarantees to the invited teams and their governing bodies, was made Tuesday in a letter from U.S. Soccer’s president, Carlos Cordeiro, to his counterparts at the 10 South American federations. For the past year, soccer officials across the Americas have held discussions about creating a quadrennial tournament involving national teams from both continents, but with no agreement in sight, U.S. Soccer, eager to fill a gap in the global soccer calendar and bearing an enticing nine-figure offer, is now proposing to establish its own.In the letter, Cordeiro said U.S. Soccer was offering to underwrite the new event and guarantee each nation — and both confederations — millions of dollars in appearance fees, subsidized travel and bonuses for each point earned. The champions could take home a prize of more than $11 million. Cordeiro has invited the South Americans to a meeting to discuss the proposal next week in Miami.The proposed 16-team tournament would resemble, in structure though most likely not in name, the 2016 Copa América Centenario. That tournament, a relocated version of the South American championship — expanded to celebrate the event’s 100th anniversary — brought the 10 members of the South American confederation, Conmebol, to the United States for a month to face off not only against one another, but also a half-dozen opponents from Concacaf, the regional confederation made up of North and Central America and the Caribbean.That tournament was considered a sporting and — perhaps more important — a financial success, and was won by Chile, which beat Argentina in a penalty-kick shootout in the final in East Rutherford, N.J. The new event would take place in June and July next year.The proposed 2020 tournament would again include all 10 South American teams, plus six from Concacaf, and would most likely feature a group stage and then a knockout round to determine a champion. U.S. Soccer’s role in the offer, and Concacaf’s consent, would be critical to making the event happen, since both would have to approve any plans to hold such an event in the United States.Concacaf released a statement Tuesday night acknowledging receipt of Cordeiro’s overture and expressing support for its broad strokes: “We view this opportunity positively as it is not intended to replace or substitute any future editions of the Concacaf Gold Cup and it complements our vision to continue providing opportunities for our Member Associations to play competitive football at the highest level.”In his letter, a draft of which was seen by The New York Times, Cordeiro took pains to emphasize that the new event would be a singular tournament, and not meant to replace existing events like the Copa América or the Gold Cup, which would continue separately. Conmebol, which will contest this year’s Copa in June and July in Brazil, said last year that it was planning to shift the Copa América to a quadrennial schedule starting in 2020, to coincide with UEFA’s European Championship. Concacaf holds its own regional championship, the Gold Cup, in odd-numbered years; this year’s Gold Cup matches will be played in the United States, Costa Rica and at least one Caribbean nation.For next summer, though, Cordeiro is proposing a larger, intercontinental event in the United States. The event could fill a gap in the global soccer calendar — at the moment, the Euros are the only major championship scheduled for that summer — but despite the millions being offered, it is unclear how South American and Conmebol officials will react to a tournament that would conflict with their Copa América plans.The Copa América has included guest teams for years; Mexico and the United States have participated in it several times, and this year it will include Japan and Qatar.For the United States, though, the event could have several positives. FIFA is expected to choose the dozen or so host cities for the 2026 World Cup in the next two years, so the tournament could be a chance for the 17 finalists to make their case for inclusion. It also would offer meaningful competition for the United States men’s national team as it heads into qualifying for the 2022 World Cup; that process began later than hoped because the search for the team’s head coach, Gregg Berhalter, was delayed, first by the World Cup bid and then by the search for a general manager to run the national team program. Hired in December, Berhalter has coached only two friendlies to date as he prepares for this summer’s Gold Cup.If the proposed tournament with Conmebol does not come to fruition, U.S. Soccer could still press ahead with a new event, possibly a scaled-down tournament involving teams from other continents.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySidebarBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court, which is pretty squeamish about vulgar language, recently agreed to hear a case about whether the owner of a line of clothing sold under the brand name FUCT can register a trademark for the term.An official at the Patent and Trademark Office said no, reasoning that the term sounded like the past tense of the most versatile curse word. A 1905 federal law allows the office to refuse to register trademarks that are “immoral, deceptive or scandalous.”Erik Brunetti, the owner of the clothing line, appealed to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, arguing that the name stood for “Friends U Can’t Trust.” That “stretches credulity,” the board ruled.Basing its decision on Google search results and entries in Urban Dictionary, the board rejected Mr. Brunetti’s application, calling his brand name a “phonetic twin” of the curse word.A federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., agreed that the term was scandalous. But it said the law barring scandalous trademarks ran afoul of the First Amendment.“The trademark at issue is vulgar,” Judge Kimberly A. Moore wrote for a divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, a specialized court in Washington.“The First Amendment, however,” Judge Moore wrote, “protects private expression, even private expression which is offensive to a substantial composite of the general public.”That conclusion was bolstered by a 2017 Supreme Court decision striking down a neighboring clause in the same part of the trademark law. That one denied federal trademark protection to terms that disparage people, living or dead, along with “institutions, beliefs or national symbols.”Mr. Brunetti’s lawyers said that the 2017 decision, Matal v. Tam, made his case an easy one. “Disparaging marks are refused because they are offensive,” they told the appeals court. “Scandalous marks are refused because they are offensive.”If one clause is unconstitutional, they argued, then so is the other.The Supreme Court apparently thinks the question is more complicated, as it agreed this month to hear the government’s appeal. If nothing else, the court can use Mr. Brunetti’s case to sort out just what it meant to say in the 2017 decision, which ruled for an Asian-American dance-rock band called the Slants. (The decision also effectively allowed the Washington Redskins football team to register its trademarks.)The justices were unanimous in ruling that the prohibition on disparaging trademarks violated the First Amendment. But they managed to split 4 to 4 in most of their reasoning, making it hard to analyze how the decision applies in the context of the ban on scandalous terms.Still, the two blocs of justices did appear to agree that a central flaw in the ban on disparagement was that it took sides or, in legal language, was not viewpoint neutral. Criticism was forbidden; praise was not.The first battleground in the new case, then, will be whether a ban on vulgar words and the like is viewpoint neutral.The government, defending the law, said it barred entire categories of speech — “vulgar terms and graphic sexual images” — but did not discriminate against particular viewpoints within those categories.Mr. Brunetti’s lawyers disagreed. “Marks favorable to religion are allowed, but marks critical of religion or likely to cause religious controversy are prohibited,” they wrote. “Marks about input into the digestive system are approved, while marks about output are rejected. Polite humor is fine, raunchy humor is scandalous. Raising babies is sweet, making babies is disgusting.”The trademark appeals board, moreover, took account of the views expressed on Mr. Brunetti’s website and products, saying they “contain strong, and often explicit, sexual imagery that objectifies women and offers degrading examples of extreme misogyny.” That sounded like viewpoint discrimination, Mr. Brunetti’s lawyers wrote.In urging the Supreme Court to hear its appeal, the federal government argued that Mr. Brunetti remained free to use and protect his trademark and had lost only the benefits of federal trademark registration, including some advantages in litigation over the validity of the mark.“The scandalous-marks provision simply reflects Congress’s judgment that the federal government should not affirmatively promote the use of graphic sexual images and vulgar terms by granting them the benefits of registration,” the government’s brief said. The trademark Mr. Brunetti sought to register, the brief said, was “equivalent to the vulgar word for which it is a homonym.”Some of the marks the office has turned down are pretty vile. “Although we are hesitant to reproduce these marks in a public brief,” the government told the appeals court, “we think it is important that the court have the context that only concrete examples can provide.”The government has not yet provided the Supreme Court with those examples, probably because the justices try to keep their distance from vulgar terms and images.In 2008 and 2012, when the Supreme Court heard arguments over the use of curse words on broadcast television, the court’s clerk sent word to the lawyers that they were not to use them. When the justices hear Mr. Brunetti’s case this spring, it is likely that the trademark he seeks to register will go unmentioned.A previous version of this article referred incorrectly to the etymology of the “most versatile” curse word. It is of Middle English origin, not Anglo-Saxon.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersWe asked readers to discuss how the people they met and classes they took influenced them, and how much going to an elite school matters.To the Editor:My admittance to Stanford was my golden ticket to a college nicknamed “Paradise,” where learning from Pulitzer Prize-winning authors and being mentored by paradigm-changing scientists were normal. Stanford opened doors I never even knew existed, having grown up in a small, agricultural town in Northern California. A little thing called an “endowment” changed my life. When I graduated in 2018, I was no longer a small-town girl, but rather a young adult, itching to contribute something meaningful. Stanford transformed my flimsy desire to become a doctor into a fiery passion to become a leader in health care — all because I had witnessed this leadership in my mentors and friends.Today, I still question what it means to attend an “elite” college, especially as admissions scandals unfold. But what I do know is that these colleges can open doors for those who want to rectify flawed systems and are hungry to elevate others. Small-town girls like me just need the exposure. To those on admissions committees: Admit more of us. Doing so can improve communities and generations to come.Shin Mei ChanSan FranciscoTo the Editor:I have a vivid recollection of the conversation that occurred in the parking lot of an independent prep school where I taught years ago. A colleague asked me, somewhat incredulously, “Wait a minute — you went to a state college?” There was a pause as I nodded in the affirmative, then came the kicker: “Oh, but I thought you were brilliant.”In places such as these, and too often in the job market, attending an “elite” college matters very much. The fact is, it shouldn’t matter at all. My dad was retired; we could not afford an expensive college. I earned a full-tuition scholarship and paid my own way. I pursued graduate work at an “elite” engineering school and earned an advanced degree from a large university. Neither was inherently superior in terms of the education it delivered.The college experiences that shaped my life the most centered around getting to know people from diverse backgrounds and learning to solve problems independently. Where or if a person went to college should matter far less than what a person has learned and become along the way in life.George WhittemorePrinceton, Mass.To the Editor:My community college experience saved my life. After graduating from high school, moving around and floundering in minimum-wage jobs, I returned to my hometown to live with my parents. I was depressed and attempted suicide. During my recovery, I started attending the community college in my hometown. At first, I resisted enrolling in our local community college because I felt there was a stigma. But when I did, I found a menagerie of students from all walks of life and professors who were deeply passionate about their students.Class by class, the depression that had held me down for so long began to lift. I joined the honors program and then helped mentor other students. I presented at an undergraduate research conference. Along the way, I met my fiancé and built a network of peers and mentors who helped me get where I am today.I cannot emphasize enough the importance of community colleges. Their support systems, small and tight-knit communities, and affordability are truly unrivaled. Today, I am working to destigmatize the college experience I owe everything to.Sarah OlsonCorvallis, Ore.The writer will be an undergraduate transfer student at Oregon State University in the fall.To the Editor:I arrived for my freshman year at Yale still wondering why I had been admitted. I was delighted and humbled by my access to all the resources, human and physical, that a great and prestigious university has to offer. I wish I could do it again, but as an adult. Yale was an amazing treat, like being taken on an exotic vacation.My diploma must have conferred a little prestige when I went looking for a job, but that’s all. In my 45 years in the working world, I always saw employees judged on cooperation and performance, not pedigree. In fact, being thought of as an intellectual fancy pants became an obstacle once in a while.A degree from a fancy school is like having a fancy suit. Delightful if you care about such things, but overpriced, overhyped and meaningless in our universal quest toward living a life we love.We are all blessed with immense and unearned privilege the day we are born. It is called being an American.Philip BowlesSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Duke. That single word changed my life in 1966. It’s right there on my license plate. DUKEMD. I had never been south of Washington, D.C. I had not even visited the campus of my “safety” school in North Carolina. I was going to Yale. Except I didn’t get in.I found myself in a foreign land of segregated restaurants, hushpuppies that you ate, not wore, alpaca sweaters, tassel loafers, ties at football games and something called Brunswick stew. I also discovered that people with thick Southern accents could run rings around me in chemistry class. And I thought I was smart!I was pre-med, but I took many mandatory liberal arts courses. Thank goodness I did. It was in Religion 2 that I first read the New Testament and in psychology that I read Freud. Those classes left the biggest impressions on me as they opened my horizons to novel (for me) ways of thinking.I owe the rest of my 50 years, including meeting my wife in Duke Medical School, to that very foreign land in Durham, N.C. Did it matter that I went to Duke? I bet my life it did.Leonard A. ZwellingBellaire, Tex.To the Editor:I graduated in 1957 from a competitive public high school in Brooklyn. After my brother entered Swarthmore in 1951 when I was 11, my mother began grooming me and pressuring me to get admitted there, too. I worked hard academically, became an editor of a school publication, and took tutoring lessons all to prevent the catastrophe of being rejected.I did get into Swarthmore, and during my first semester began to experience the incapacitating depressions that would haunt me for the rest of my life. I still remember clearly my first visit home at Thanksgiving. I was riding the IRT subway to Brooklyn and looking at the other riders and thinking, “I wonder if any of these people are smart enough to go to Swarthmore, but I’m sure they are all happier than I am.”Elsa PrigozySlingerlands, N.Y.To the Editor:Can four years change your life? I arrived on the Brandeis campus in the late summer of 1982, a fresh-faced kid from a small town in upstate New York. During my time at school I met the woman who would become my wife. Made friends who are still my closest. Became a Deadhead. Partied a lot (sorry, Mom and Dad!). Studied a bit. Began playing guitar.I learned how big the world actually is, and realized for the first time how much a part of that world I was. My mind grew, opened up. My heart changed. I became, essentially and fundamentally, who I am today.One conversation with a professor sticks with me. I was a middling student. He grabbed me after class and we talked for maybe five minutes. I don’t remember exactly what he said. It had something to do with my potential, with something he saw in me that I didn’t see. I walked out of his office and thought of myself in a different way. Suddenly there was an intellectual curiosity, almost a kind of muse, that I am still following. I wonder if he ever knew?(Rabbi) Steve SchwartzBaltimoreTo the Editor:I was accepted to M.I.T. as a transfer student in 1975. It is hard to overestimate the impact of that elite name on the undergraduate degree I earned there in mechanical engineering. People’s response to me changes when they hear I graduated from M.I.T. It’s like an automatic in. Forty years later it is still featured prominently at the top of my résumé.Gail Whoriskey ZwerlingSomerville, Mass.To the Editor:I earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from South Dakota State University in the 1990s. Immediately after graduating I moved to the East Coast, where many people I met couldn’t find South Dakota on a map and had certainly never heard of the university. I was able to find jobs with good companies in various large cities and to build a decent career. After a few years in the work force, it seemed to matter more where I had worked than where I went to college. I was probably not called in to interview by some companies because I hadn’t attended a prestigious university, but there are plenty of great employers who look at more than alma mater. All that said, I’ve seen how attending certain schools opens many doors. It’s not a guarantee of success, but there’s no denying that graduates of top schools have a leg up.I have a 2-year-old and I already think about where she’ll go to college. It will ultimately be her choice, but I will strongly suggest elite institutions. Despite my own positive experience and my desire for it to not matter, it absolutely does.Jennifer Healy KeintzEden, S.D.To the Editor:My undergraduate college experience was scattered, extraordinary and rich. The first year was spent at the College of St. Benedict in central Minnesota, where my eyes were opened to the Benedictines’ world of history and literature. Sister Colman cast me in Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” and I fell in love with the theater.The next year I studied with the Franciscans at the College of Saint Teresa in Winona, Minn. Sister Bernetta’s huge graphic representation of Dante’s “Inferno,” which occupied a whole wall and an entire semester of study, will stay with me until I die.My last two years were spent at the University of Minnesota, where professors like John Berryman, Saul Bellow, William Van O’Connor and Robert Penn Warren were astonishing me daily. A new world opened. I began to question everything, and to embrace learning as a means to a fulfilling life.As Rilke says in “Letters to a Young Poet”: “Try to love the questions themselves. ... Do not now seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything.”Judith Koll HealeyMinneapolisThe writer is a novelist and biographer.To the Editor:I graduated from LeMoyne College in Syracuse, N.Y., in 1989 — good Jesuit liberal arts school, but by no means “elite.” The best professor I had there was a poet named Barbara Clarkson. A student of Auden and Roethke at Bennington College, she taught us how to write and be passionate about poetry. Her office was in the basement next to the janitor’s closet. She smoked cigars, ashing them into a cracked teacup she kept on her desk. I still read and write poetry today, and it’s because of her.This is college to me: not so much where you go, but whom you meet once you get there.Michael TuckerBath, Me.The writer is the course materials specialist at Bowdoin College.To the Editor:I went to an “elite” college — one of the Seven Sisters — in the late 1950s when they were all single-sex schools. I confess to have attended only to prove to my parents, my friends and myself that I could “get in.” Although I made several lifelong friendships and, because of a captivating professor in the music department, developed a love for music that sustains me to this day, I was far too immature to benefit from the potentially excellent education that I neglected to take advantage of.Although I confess to having enjoyed the cachet evoked by my school’s name, I’ve often regretted that I didn’t attend a large coed school with football and basketball games (and parties) to attend — or wished that a “gap year” had been available so that I could have had a year to experience the real world before being immersed in an ivory tower that, perhaps at one year older, I would have appreciated more.Peggy SweeneySarasota, Fla.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Trump campaign floated a proposal for a wholesale 5G network. It’s politically expedient but still a great idea.By Kevin WerbachMr. Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, served as an adviser on telecommunication policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Trump re-election campaign’s wireless open access proposal was a poorly vetted scheme possibly intended to score political points. It was squelched almost immediately after it became public, as shocked White House staff members complained that it contradicted the administration’s support for competing wireless networks. The twist? Open access wireless is actually a terrific idea. Some forward-thinking Democrats and public interest advocates have been pushing it for decades.The concept, promoted by Republican operatives such as Newt Gingrich and Karl Rove, is for a network supporting fifth-generation (5G) wireless technology to operate on a wholesale basis. Carriers such as AT&T, Comcast and Verizon could buy capacity. So could anyone else: Apple, Amazon, Walmart, Uber or small operators serving rural areas. No company could use exclusive control over spectrum to block competition.Last year, a leaked National Security Council presentation called for nationalization of 5G networks to improve cybersecurity and better compete against China. The proposal was ignominiously killed and its author left the White House. The Trump re-election campaign’s proposal wisely dropped the government takeover. It shifted the focus to wholesale access, which could be overseen by an independent nonprofit organization, like the independent system operators that manage electricity markets. Today’s cellphones use fourth-generation wireless technology, or 4G. 5G, a set of standards under development, promises higher speeds, improved coverage and better support for new technologies such as augmented reality, autonomous vehicles and connected sensors in all types of devices. 5G networks require denser construction of towers, reducing the distance between a tower and each device. To make 5G a reality, companies and consumers around the world will have to invest hundreds of billions of dollars over the next decade to upgrade hardware, phones and networks. The countries leading the way could reap huge economic benefits.The December arrest in Canada of a top official of Huawei, China’s biggest communications hardware provider, raised the stakes considerably. Meng Wanzhou is accused of committing fraud to help Huawei evade sanctions against Iran. The United States is pressuring its allies to ban Huawei from building their 5G networks on national security grounds.Those moves will not, however, accelerate 5G deployment in the United States. The Chinese government aggressively coordinates and promotes 5G activity, which is proceeding at a breakneck pace. China Tower, for example, added 460 wireless tower sites per day in 2017, more than ten times the rate of American companies, according to a report by Deloitte.The view of American policymakers, which has been consistent through at least four administrations, is that competition among wireless operators is superior to heavy-handed government initiatives. Nevermind that while American wireless providers have a strong track record on innovation, prices for consumers are high by global standards, and the so-called free market is actually an oligopoly of four major carriers that could soon fall to three. Way back in 1995, a Columbia University economist, Eli Noam, proposed an alternative: a wholesale spectrum provider that sold capacity to all. Over the next few years, some progressives (myself included) argued that cable broadband networks should be subject to a similar open access mandate. And in 2010, as the Federal Communications Commission developed the National Broadband Plan, a team led by the Harvard legal scholar Yochai Benkler made a detailed case for wholesale sharing. The idea was shot down each time amid furious industry opposition. Why would the Trump campaign endorse open access? Rivada Networks, a politically connected firm that counts Peter Thiel, a prominent Trump donor, among its investors, appears to be positioning itself for the lucrative contract to provide the technology for such a system. Mr. Trump’s political advisers see the open access plan as a way to improve wireless service in rural areas, a gift to the president’s base.These motivations should not obscure the value of open access. The communications industry has already shown that a competitive open market sometimes can’t develop without government action. The F.C.C. had to prevent phone companies from squelching internet service providers, and many companies that develop online applications face potential blocking of their services and discrimination by broadband operators. The primary way the government makes wireless spectrum available today is through exclusive licensing to the highest bidder. That can make it difficult for companies that provide niche services such as telemedicine and smart electric grids, or that serve less populous areas, which the big national carriers often ignore.Even some architects of the current system are reconsidering. Peter Cramton, for example, helped more than a dozen countries design spectrum auctions. He’s now Rivada’s chief economist. As Mr. Cramton and his co-author, Linda Doyle, wrote in 2017, wholesale open access offers the best hope to break the wireless oligopoly while also using spectrum more efficiently.They were right. Making capacity available in real time at market prices limits hoarding and encourages innovation. Unleashing our brilliant start-up ecosystem through such market mechanisms, along with opportunities for unlicensed access to wireless capacity, is America’s best hope to beat China in 5G.But a poorly managed implementation could create a greedy wholesale monopolist, or turn wireless access into a political football, as is the disastrous fate of Australia’s open access fiber network. And the details of implementation are not this administration’s strong suit.There is also no guarantee that rural wireless providers will rush in to take advantage of the opportunity. A wholesale system will require careful oversight and a long-term commitment by the government. The political campaign’s rapid walk-back does not inspire confidence.Nonetheless, tech-savvy Democrats should welcome the embrace of their open access vision. Even if it means being more supportive of a Trump campaign position than the White House. Kevin Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, is the author of “The Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust.” He served as an adviser on telecommunications policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuIn less than two minutes, the men and boys in Gillette’s new ad engage in a panoply of bad behavior: bullying, fighting, discrimination, sexual harassment and more. A line of them, standing behind smoke wafting up from their grills, recites, “Boys will be boys will be boys will be boys.”“Boys will be boys”? Isn’t it time we stopped excusing bad behavior? Re-think and take action by joining us at https://t.co/giHuGDEvlT. #TheBestMenCanBe pic.twitter.com/hhBL1XjFVo“Is this the best a man can get?” the ad asks, challenging viewers to confront issues like toxic masculinity and #MeToo and to abandon “the same old excuses.” By the end of the clip, men are challenging catcallers, championing their daughters and breaking up brawls.The company, known for its razors and personal care products, posted the ad on social media on Monday. Within a day, it was the subject of a battle in which support for its message collided with calls for boycotts.The ad, developed by Gillette’s advertising agency, Grey, was defended and praised by the actress Rosanna Arquette, the comedian Pete Dominick, the screenwriter and director Jeffrey Reddick, Arianna Huffington and others.But on social media, one man called it “a condescending ad from a company that relies on men buying their products.” Another wrote that “being a man is not a disease nor a pathology,” adding that “it is grotesque to repeatedly ascribe collective guilt onto half of humanity known as men.”The television personality Piers Morgan railed on Twitter about the ad, calling it “pathetic,” “virtue-signalling” and “a direct consequence of radical feminists” who are “driving a war against masculinity.” He said he had used Gillette razors for his entire adult life but, like the actor James Woods, was considering jumping ship.On YouTube, the ad has been liked more than 1,700 times. But it received more than 10,000 thumbs down votes.Gillette said it had commissioned a study of 1,188 adults and found that the results “emphasize the outsized importance of ‘soft’ skills in today’s modern man.”Soon after Gillette’s ad appeared online, its rival Dollar Shave Club posted a message on Twitter that seemed to welcome new customers. The post was liked more than 4,500 times, compared with a few dozen likes on the company’s other posts.This is not the first time Procter & Gamble, which owns Gillette, has echoed progressive themes in its marketing.The company’s Pantene hair products line once ran a “Strong Is Beautiful” campaign, which featured football players from the New Orleans Saints, the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Dallas Cowboys braiding their daughters’ hair. The #LikeAGirl campaign for the Always feminine hygiene products, which encourages girls to face the fear of failure, shows them playing chess, fencing and drumming.But in taking a position on the idea of toxic masculinity, Gillette and Procter & Gamble could be dealing with a “hot potato,” said Dean Crutchfield, the chief executive of the brand advisory firm Crutchfield & Partners.“If this is just a quick campaign to get some attention, not something they’re weaving into the fabric of their company going forward, it’s going to blow up in their face,” he said. “This is a huge topic and it’s highly sensitive, and I don’t think P. & G. had done anything as explosive as this could be.”Other companies have also inserted themselves into discussions about sexuality, race, culture and other contentious issues.Years ago, Old Spice wanted to convince men that shower gel was masculine while appealing to the women who were actually buying the product. The resulting “Smell like a man, man” campaign is now considered a marketing triumph.Pepsi’s 2017 ad featuring Kendall Jenner was also memorable, but mainly because of the intense criticism it faced borrowing imagery from the Black Lives Matter movement, watering it down and then using it to sell soda. The company pulled the ad and apologized.Ram trucks met a similar reception last year when they used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in a Super Bowl ad.Gillette is a giant in the shaving industry, but its foothold is shrinking as scrappy competitors offering disposable razor subscriptions capture younger consumers. Dollar Shave Club was acquired by Unilever for $1 billion in 2016. Harry’s, another razor purveyor, raised $112 million from investors last year to expand beyond men’s grooming.Sales for Gillette’s grooming segment slipped 1 percent in its most recent quarter. The brand, which has mistakenly mailed free razors intended for 18-year-old men to middle-aged women, has tried to stay fresh by experimenting with personalized 3-D-printed razor handles and designing blades for sensitive skin.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSo a compelling two-year run of American political and cultural theater comes to a deeply unsatisfying conclusion. Colin Kaepernick, a once brilliant young quarterback, chose to take a knee for his beliefs and endured apparent blackballing by the most powerful sports league in North America.It would be churlish to criticize this man for taking an unspecified financial settlement and signing a nondisclosure agreement with the National Football League after he had accused the league’s teams of colluding to keep him out. He sacrificed for his beliefs and with a dignified use of free speech, that grandest of American traditions, he came to personify a coming of political age across several sports.He persevered despite sprays of vitriol from this nation’s president, Donald J. Trump, who in 2017 used the specter of this black man to stir resentments.“Wouldn’t you love to see one of those N.F.L. owners, when someone disrespects our flag, to say: ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’ ” Trump told a crowd in Alabama.It was catnip for the vastly white crowds that roared in disgust over Kaepernick.It is galling that Kaepernick and his former teammate Eric Reid, who joined him in the protest and legal action, must remain mum about the corruptions of the industrial complex known as the N.F.L. The owners almost certainly conspired to blackball Kaepernick, ensuring that he would never throw another pass in the league.As he sought to sign on with a new team for the season after his protest began, and less than five years after he had taken the 49ers to the Super Bowl, owners came up with ever more pathetic excuses for refusing to sign a quarterback so swift and so strong of arm.Now he can say nothing about that travesty. It feels a bit like the Freedom Riders integrating a lunch counter and agreeing not to talk about it.I called Ira Glasser, a former director of the American Civil Liberties Union who is also a deep-dyed sports fan. He resolutely declined to second-guess Kaepernick for surveying the ruin of his career and probably taking a large chunk of money.“He was a star who burst upon the scene explosively, and maybe he extracted as much justice as he could from this situation,” Glasser said. “But it does leave a stain on the N.F.L. that ought not to be eradicated in the public mind.”Kaepernick did not burn a flag or even hold a proud fist aloft. It’s a measure of the subtle nature of his protest that fans and sportswriters went three preseason games before they noticed that, oh yeah, Kaepernick was sitting out the national anthem.When they asked the young quarterback about it, he talked about police brutality and too many dead black Americans: “To me this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.”In the next game and thereafter, Kaepernick took a knee instead, at the suggestion of a military veteran. Yet the whirlwind of anger somehow gained in force.In the first weeks of that season, I flew to San Francisco to draw his measure. To step into the 49ers postgame locker room was to find a remarkably composed man with the support of many teammates. He walked out of the shower that night and slipped a form-fitting shirt over a lithe, tattooed torso. Then he turned to a bristling array of microphones and cameras and calmly answered every question.Are you proud, a reporter asked him, of your role in stirring players around the N.F.L. — several knelt or raised fists Sunday during the various anthems — to protest? Kaepernick, a new arrival to the world of political activism, shook his head. No airs, man, no airs.“No, no,” he said. “This movement wasn’t for me. As I’ve researched these things, as I’ve seen more and more, it’s not right.”He spoke instead of how social media and reading and looking at photographs online had driven home to him how many blacks were dying at the hands of the police.“You see things instantly, day after day, and it’s hard,” he told us before citing some of the casualties. “For me, I couldn’t see another hashtag Sandra Bland, hashtag Tamir Rice, hashtag Walter Scott.”“At what point,” he continued, “do we take a stand?”It was dissent, yes, and as unthreatening and American as you could find in a country so often given over now to partisan furies. As Glasser, the civil libertarian, said to me Friday, “If that’s not acceptable to this country, what is it that we are supposed to be fighting for?”Colin Kaepernick the football player may soon move into history’s mists. Kaepernick the human rights activist, the man Amnesty International named an ambassador of conscience, may just be coming into his own.You hope only that this young man walked away with a mother lode from the league without shame.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaMIAMI — Against the wishes of European soccer leaders, FIFA pushed through plans for a revamped World Cup of clubs featuring 24 teams at a meeting of its governing council on Friday. The decision ended a debate that had lasted a year, while at the same time raised doubts about the caliber of participants in a major new competition championed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino.The remaking of the competition from winter afterthought to potential summer moneymaker — a replacement for the Confederations Cup, an unpopular national-team competition usually held a year before the World Cup — has led to a major breakdown in relations between FIFA and European soccer’s governing body, UEFA. All the European members at the FIFA meeting voted against the plan for the new tournament on Friday.European club teams, whose participation will be critical to the success of the reimagined Club World Cup, reiterated their opposition to the event only minutes after FIFA made its announcement that it had been approved. The European Club Association, an umbrella body for the continent’s top teams, said its members would not participate in the event, even though FIFA’s plan includes slots for eight European teams.Infantino, though, described himself as “a happy president,” saying he was confident that after further talks, opposition to the event would subside and the world’s top teams would take part. He pointed out that the event — held every four years — could bring in billions of extra dollars to FIFA’s coffers, which currently benefit from more than $6 billion from each World Cup.“We hope all the greatest teams will participate,” Infantino said at a news conference. “The best teams should have this world platform.”The main opposition to the plans largely relates to adding more events to soccer’s already busy global calendar, with fears that even more games could burn out top players, or leave them susceptible to injuries. UEFA said any changes should wait until 2024, when a new comprehensive schedule for global soccer is set to be approved.The Club World Cup plan had led to an almost complete breakdown in the relationship between Infantino and Aleksander Ceferin, the UEFA president. The men had not held talks for a year since a meeting last year in Colombia during which Infantino first unveiled the proposal. They did, however, meet for an hour on Thursday morning, where Ceferin outlined UEFA’s continued opposition.In other news Friday, the FIFA Council agreed to push ahead with plans to expand the World Cup in Qatar to 48 teams, an undertaking fraught with complexity amid an ongoing diplomatic and economic standoff between Qatar and a group of its Gulf neighbors.A study conducted by FIFA recently found Qatar, a desert state smaller than Connecticut, could not host an event with 16 more teams on its own. Unless the blockade — led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates — is lifted, only Oman and Kuwait could be considered viable partners in the region. But both countries would be required to spend significant amounts on the infrastructure required to meet FIFA standards.Greg Clarke, a FIFA vice president from England, told the meeting that FIFA must consider the human rights records of any additional host country, according to people present at the meeting. Qatar has been forced to adopt new workers regulations amid a backlash over its treatment of construction workers building the stadiums there. That scrutiny would likely shift to its neighbors, Clarke told the council members.“How can you not think of human rights wherever you go? It must be an issue,” said Evelina Christillin, a FIFA Council member from Italy.A delegation from Qatar, which was awarded the World Cup almost a decade ago, was also present in Miami. Hassan al-Thawadi, the executive responsible for 2022 World Cup preparations, said Qatar remained open-minded about expansion, provided it benefited Qatar as much as it did FIFA. He failed to answer when asked to provide one example of a benefit that his country could derive from an expanded tournament.“We are open to exploring the options,” al-Thawadi said, adding it would be a “big, big challenge” to host a 48-team event if the blockade, now in its second year, continued. FIFA must make a final decision at a meeting of its 211 members in Paris in June; qualifying for the tournament begins that month, and teams and federations would need to know how many places are available.Should the World Cup be enlarged, FIFA would need to play six matches per day to ensure the tournament can be completed within 28 days, a stipulation it agreed with European clubs after moving the tournament to November to avoid the searing Gulf summer. That would mean rest periods for some teams of as little as 48 hours, and a potential risk to athlete’ health, according to the largest players’ union, FIFPro“At international competitions like the World Cup, the minimum rest period between matches must be maintained at 72 hours,” FIFPro said in a statement.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesNew genetic analysis shows that an underground parasitic mold in Michigan is about 2,500 years old and has a low mutation rate. By JoAnna KleinThe scientists first reported finding it in 1992: a giant mushroom that weighed as much as a blue whale and sprawled across more than 30 acres of forest in Michigan’s upper peninsula. It wasn’t some Alice-in-Wonderland-type toadstool but a 1,500-year-old parasitic mold, with growing tentacles that foraged beneath the soil for roots and decaying wood to devour.Nearly 30 years later, the same scientists — using new technology for genetic analysis — wanted to know whether they had properly measured this unusual example of fungal life.“We made this outlandish prediction that the fungus is more than 1,000 years old,” said James Anderson, now a retired mycologist and emeritus professor at the University of Toronto. “And so an obvious outcome of that, is after three decades, it ought still be there, and if not, we’d have some explaining to do.”Recently they published what they uncovered in Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. Their original humongous fungus, Armillaria gallica, is even older and bigger than first estimated: the 2,500-year-old parasite spreads across 180 acres of forest. And its genome harbors a mysterious survival strategy: an extremely low mutation rate.From 2015 through 2017, Dr. Anderson and his colleagues tested soil from nearly 250 sites on the peninsula. They connected dots on a forest-wide canvas and painted an impressionist portrait of this monster beneath the dirt.And it had some surprising features.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]First, it covered more space than first measured.Second, based on observations of how much it grew over a season, the scientists figured the fungus had to be 1,000 years older than they had originally estimated.And when they began considering that age against their genetic analysis, something seemed strange.As an organism grows and cells start splitting and copying DNA during mitosis — which is how they make new, identical body cells — you expect to see mutations emerge in copies that are passed on from one generation to the next. But this old beast harbored only about 160 mutations, orders of magnitude lower than expected.More than two millenniums was plenty of time for cells to divide, copy and paste their DNA and send it — mistakes and all — from one generation to the next. But to get so few mutations, the fungus must have had very few cell divisions, which is crazy for a giant fungus made of microscopic cells. The researchers couldn’t measure how many cell divisions separate the bits of fungus spanning the length of nine football fields side-by-side, and so they couldn’t measure the mutation rate directly. It should have been huge, but it wasn’t.“I think it’s a really interesting result with cutting edge technology, and it opens up new questions about how organisms can remain stable over that length of time,” said Tom Bruns, a fungal ecologist at the University of California, Berkeley who reviewed the study.But he and Dr. Anderson agree that it’s still unclear how the fungus genome ended up this way.Their paper offers some speculation. The infecting tips of the fungi’s rhizomes could have low rates of cell division. Or the fungus could be really good at repairing damage inside its cells, passing healthy traits onto the next generation. Even more bizarrely, the cells may be selective about which copies of DNA they send on to the next generation. Maybe it’s a combination of these factors — or something else entirely, Dr. Anderson said.Dr. Bruns said it was also possible that the analysis missed some mutations. When they do show up within a big pool of cells, they’re so rare, they’re presumed to be errors.But if this extremely low mutation rate is indeed the case — and it seems to be, according to Dr. Bruns, it poses other interesting questions.How widespread among fungi and other life is this low mutation rate? What can it tell us about cancer, which seems to be on the opposite end of the genetic stability spectrum? And if this thing is so good at living, who wins in an apocalypse: the cockroach or Armillaria?“I’ll bet on Armillaria,” Dr. Bruns said.An earlier version of this article misstated the time period between the two reports on the giant fungus. It has been nearly 30 years since the first, not more than 30 years.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherNot every Super Bowl is super, and we’ll find out if this year’s edition fits the tag on Feb. 3. But we do know some of what is in store.One of those things is (no surprise) the New England Patriots, who will be appearing in their third consecutive Super Bowl and fourth in five years. The Rams will be the first team to represent Los Angeles in the game since 1984.Those are not the only records and oddities about Super Bowl LIII.Sean McVay, who took over the Rams last season after a meteoric rise as an N.F.L. assistant, turns 33 this week, which will make him the youngest head coach in Super Bowl history. He breaks the record held by Mike Tomlin, who was 36 when his Pittsburgh Steelers won the big game in 2009.At 66, Bill Belichick will not be the oldest Super Bowl coach, as Marv Levy went to the game with the Bills at age 67 and 68. But Belichick could become the oldest winner, breaking the record held by Tom Coughlin, who was 65 when the Giants beat the Patriots in 2012.Tom Brady is 41 and will become the oldest Super Bowl starting quarterback. He breaks the record set by, well, Tom Brady last year.At 24, Jared Goff is not the youngest Super Bowl starter, but he’s not far off. Dan Marino was the youngest, at 23 years 127 days, and Ben Roethlisberger was just behind him at 23 years 340 days.Both conference championship games went to overtime; the Rams beat the New Orleans Saints, 26-23, and the Patriots beat the Kansas City Chiefs, 37-31. They were the first overtime conference championships since 2015, when the Seattle Seahawks rallied to beat the Green Bay Packers. It was the first time ever that both conference games went to overtime.Both lower-seeded teams won, playing on the road. It’s only the second time that has happened in this century: The other instance was in 2013, when the fourth-seeded Baltimore Ravens beat the Patriots and the second-seeded San Francisco 49ers beat the Falcons.When it comes to offense, both teams rank among the N.F.L. elite. The Rams are second in points scored and yards per play and third in net yards per pass. The Patriots are just a bit behind at fourth, eighth and sixth.But defensively the Rams did not put up great numbers, ranking just 20th in points allowed, 28th in yards per play and 23rd in yards per pass. The Patriots had better, though not great, rankings at seventh, 20th and fifth.It adds up to a potentially high-scoring Super Bowl. The oddsmakers have set the over/under at somewhere in the 57-58 range, and depending on where it lands it could be the highest in history. The record came in 2017, when the Patriots-Falcons game was set at 57. (It went over.)It’s a Super Bowl rematch, sort of. In 2002, the Patriots beat the Rams, 20-17. But it was the St. Louis Rams, in Year 7 of a 21-year exile from Los Angeles. Some things don’t ever seem to change though. That game’s M.V.P. was Tom Brady.The Roman numerals have reached LIII, or 53. You could also call it Super Bowl 110101 if you prefer binary numbers or Super Bowl 35 if hexadecimal is more your thing.It’s the first prime-number Super Bowl since XLVII (Ravens over 49ers, 34-31.)Among the athletes who have worn No. 53: Don Drysdale, Harry Carson, Artis Gilmore and Darryl Dawkins.It’s the third Super Bowl in Atlanta. The first two took place in the now-imploded Georgia Dome: The Cowboys dealt the Bills the fourth of their four consecutive losses in 1994, and the Rams (again in St. Louis) beat the Titans in the 2000 game in which Kevin Dyson came one yard short of a game-tying touchdown as time expired.Pop band Maroon 5 and rappers Big Boi and Travis Scott will perform the halftime show. Up with People, which headlined the show four times, is still awaiting its first appearance since 1986.Gladys Knight will sing the national anthem, a year after Pink did the honors. Knight will join an odd mix of stars to carry out the duties, a list that includes Lady Gaga (2016), Billy Joel (1989 and 2007), Cher (1999), Kathie Lee Gifford (1995) and Al Hirt (1970).Gamblers are saying the anthem performance will last 1 minute 50 seconds. You can bet on it. Or on whether a player will kneel (5-1 against). Or if a fan runs on the field (15-1). Or the color of Adam Levine of Maroon 5’s shirt (Black is the favorite) or whether a Coke or Pepsi commercial will appear first, or — well, you get the idea.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongScott Van Pelt closed an episode of “SportsCenter” last month with a two-minute monologue about the 31st anniversary of his father’s death. Strengthened by two friends who had recently lost their parents, Van Pelt spoke passionately about running from grief, and encouraged everyone to do the opposite — to articulate their pain so they could overcome it.The segment went viral. It embodied the essential traits of Van Pelt’s version of ESPN’s flagship show — sensitivity, nuance and the courage to be vulnerable — that help him connect with viewers.“It’s a great reminder of the power of the microphone we hold in our hands,” Van Pelt said.But that power is changing — disappearing, even — as television viewing habits change and sports media develop new ways to bring fans what they want when they want it. (Now!) That means what was once a premier placement in TV sports — the anchor desk — is not the high perch it used to be. It is not clear anymore what it is at all.Not so long ago, sports fans operated on a schedule dictated by the programming that was available on TV. The sports highlight show, “SportsCenter” being the most popular one, was appointment viewing.It was where sports fans went to see the highlights they could only read about in the newspaper. People came to know its anchors: Keith Olbermann, Linda Cohn, Stuart Scott, Robin Roberts, Dan Patrick, to name a few. They complemented the sports clips with their own personalities and, in the case of Scott, redefined the highlight show genre.But today, highlights flood fans’ Twitter timelines immediately: a buzzer beater on loop seconds after it drops through the net; a touchdown from multiple angles before referees have ruled it good. They flood our Instagram feeds thanks to users like House of Highlights, which delivers the day’s most important sports highlights to more than 12 million followers.“SportsCenter,” even with six editions each weekday, can no longer dangle the carrot of providing clips unavailable anywhere else. On most nights, when the highlight package rolls, Van Pelt is telling a majority of the viewers about something they have already seen.“Every person covering sports is trying to figure out the riddle,” Van Pelt said. He asked how a program could deliver highlights “to you in a way that you will want it and convince yourself that you will need it.”Omar Raja, 24, is the founder of House of Highlights. He grew up watching sports highlights on the local news with his father every morning. When Kobe Bryant scored 81 points against the Toronto Raptors in 2006, he did not find out about it until he turned on his TV the next morning.“It’s crazy to think 10 years ago, we had to wait until the next day to find out what happened the night before,” Raja said.Raja’s team can now offer instant access to what everyone is talking about. But Raja thinks traditional and new-age highlights delivery systems can coexist. He still watches “SportsCenter,” after all, especially Van Pelt’s midnight edition.“I don’t really listen to him for the highlights,” Raja said. “I just listen to him for his thoughts on things. He’s a good personality, and he’s charismatic.”When Van Pelt took over as anchor in 2015, he said, he decided to lean on his personality and trust the audience to connect with his curiosity about sports.Per ESPN, Van Pelt has consistently generated higher ratings among 18-to 34-year-old men in his midnight time slot than late-night talk shows on broadcast or cable. Other sports anchors have tried a similar approach, to lesser degrees of success.Jay Onrait and Dan O’Toole’s show on Fox Sports went through several iterations before pivoting toward a late-night show format; it was canceled in 2017. Jemele Hill and Michael Smith were chosen to overhaul the 6 p.m. “SportsCenter,” but the reformatted show — called “SC6” or “The Six” — lasted a little more than a year before it was broken up in 2018. During its run, Hill was criticized for a post to her personal Twitter account about President Trump, and for another about the N.F.L., for which ESPN suspended her.“To ignore the racial component and the climate that they faced would be completely dishonest,” Van Pelt said of Hill and Smith, who are African-American. “They faced challenges that I didn’t face. They also didn’t have the benefits that I have.”Those benefits include a midnight slot that allows Van Pelt to experiment in front of a smaller potential audience, and stronger lead-ins from “Monday Night Football” during the N.F.L. season.Onrait, who now hosts “Jay and Dan” on TSN in Canada at midnight, has adopted the sensibilities of a late-night talk-show host in this turn as a sports anchor.“Personality is what’s going to rule the next phase of television,” Onrait said.Others, such as Skip Bayless of Fox Sports, combine so-called “hot takes” with continuous criticism of high-profile athletes like LeBron James to connect with viewers.“The only thing that really worked at Fox was Skip,” Onrait said. “Nothing was working until Skip showed up. No one got ratings. I know lots of people have made a living out of crapping on the guy, but what he did was bring actual viewers to the network. He was the only one who did that.”In a statement to The New York Times, Norby Williamson, an ESPN executive who oversees “SportsCenter,” pushed back against the idea that the show is becoming obsolete.“We recognize that people have many options for viewing highlights now, but we continue to develop presentations that you’re not going to see anywhere else,” Williamson said. “We’ll show you what happened but also how it happened and why.”While ESPN still sees its network and the “SportsCenter” franchise as vital to the fan’s experience, what really matters is whether viewers will continue to see it this way.Van Pelt knows that reckoning is coming soon.“I keep thinking to myself this is a short window,” Van Pelt said. “It won’t go on forever.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of editions of “SportsCenter” each weekday. There are six, not four.AdvertisementSunday RoutineHer weekends seem as picture-perfect as her Instagram account. The mother of two works out, eats bagels and even gets along famously with her in-laws.Ms. Charnas with her husband, Brandon Charnas, and their older daughter, Ruby.CreditCreditAmy Lombard for The New York TimesSupported byBy Shivani Vora[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]In 2018, Arielle Charnas, who makes her living as a social media influencer, partnered with Nordstrom to create a fashion and accessories line inspired by her style blog, Something Navy. When the department store introduced the collections online last fall, its website crashed. Something Navy’s single-day sales outsold other Nordstrom collaborations, like those with Beyoncé and Rihanna.Ms. Charnas, 31, plans to attend New York Fashion Week, including those for Tom Ford, Khaite, and Ralph Lauren. This means that her 1.1 million Instagram followers will get a glimpse of the runway world, too. She lives in the Flatiron district with her husband, Brandon Charnas, 33, who works in commercial real-estate, and their two daughters, Ruby, 2, Esme, 8 months, and their Cavalier King Charles spaniel, Dylan.15 MINUTES OF PEACE No matter the day of the week, Brandon and I wake up at 7. We don’t hear Ruby and Esme stirring until 7:15, and it’s nice to have a few minutes alone to get ourselves together and make some coffee. Once Esme starts crying, I go get her while Brandon gets Ruby.BAGEL DELIVERY We are big breakfast people and all sit around our kitchen table and eat a proper meal. I order plain bagels from Tal Bagels, which I can’t get enough of, through Postmates a couple times a week, and Ruby and I will often eat those with cream cheese. Brandon usually makes scrambled eggs with peppers and onions. I’ll often purée some fresh fruit for Esme.VIDEO-PERFECT It doesn’t always happen, but I try to get in a morning workout. Luckily, we have a gym in our building, and I’ll go there to meet my trainer Megan Roup, who I have been seeing for two years. It’s a 45-minute session, and we’ll do 15 minutes of toning and 30 minutes of a choreographed dance workout. I film these routines and post them on my Instagram so we’ll do them over and over again until they’re good enough to post.SUNDAYS IN THE PARK Unless it’s snowing or raining, we’ll all head out to one of the several parks around us and spend a couple of hours there. Ruby goes on the swings and slides, and Esme goes on the baby swing. She’s also into watching the big kids play.THREE GENERATIONS Brandon’s parents live on the Upper East Side and come downtown to meet us for Sunday lunch. There are so many great places around us, and it’s hard to pick a spot sometimes. Shake Shack is an easy go-to. Sadelle’s is another favorite. I may eat a bagel again because I am obsessed with them or will get their French toast or one of their salads. I am very very close to my in-laws. They’re so caring and helpful with the kids, and it’s always fun to be with them.SIESTA After lunch, we head back to the apartment. Ruby will sleep for an hour and a half, and Esme will sleep for three hours. Brandon’s parents will come home with us, and we hang out on the couch and talk some more. Or we may watch a movie, or Brandon and his dad will watch football.PLAY Ruby wakes up around 2:30 and is ready to play. She loves playing with Dylan and can’t enough of anything Barbie. She’s also into art, and I’ll sometimes set up her easel for her so she can paint or color. When Esme wakes up, she plays with Dylan, too, or will watch Ruby play.DINNER Occasionally, I find the time to cook, but more often than not, we end up going out to a nearby restaurant. Our favorite is this Greek place Periyali. I get the Greek salad and chicken skewers. We also both get a glass of red wine.COOKIE, TUB, BED Ruby will have a warm chocolate-chip cookie that we bake using premade dough, and then I give them both a bath. Ruby brings all her Barbies into the tub, and Esme hangs out in her bath chair. She goes to sleep around 7, and Ruby gets into bed with me and watches a cartoon or other kids’ movie.SECRET SAUCE With the girls down, Brandon and I climb into bed and watch hours of TV. We love murder mysteries and Marvel movies like “The Avengers.” It sounds strange, but our late-night snack is this chopped salad that our housekeeper makes during the week. It has lettuce, peppers and cucumbers, and Brandon adds in turkey and cheese and whips up this incredible dressing to throw on top. I’ve asked him what’s in it, but he is shady about the recipe. We watch until I fall sleep, which is around 11.If you are not already following Ms. Charnas on Instagram, you can find her @somethingnavy.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnFor a weekend dominated by M. Night Shyamalan, there weren’t many twists at the box office.Universal’s “Glass,” a superhero successor to the director Shyamalan’s “Unbreakable” and “Split” that stars Samuel L. Jackson, Bruce Willis and James McAvoy, sold an estimated $40.6 million in tickets during its first weekend in North American theaters, easily topping the chart at the end of a relatively quiet week.“Glass” completes a trilogy that started in 2000 with “Unbreakable,” a superhero thriller that introduced audiences to David Dunn (Willis), a football player-turned-security guard with superhuman abilities, and Elijah Price (Jackson), a comic-book theorist. While that film was successful at the box office and has since developed a cult following, its sales were modest compared to those of Shyamalan’s previous blockbuster, “The Sixth Sense,” which was the second-highest-grossing movie of 1999.With “Glass,” Universal was likely hoping to combine the cult status of “Unbreakable” with the box-office momentum created by “Split,” which came out in early 2017. The latter movie, which stars McAvoy as a kidnapper with multiple personalities, was a surprise hit, making about $138.3 million domestically during its time in theaters against a production budget of just $9 million, according to Box Office Mojo.“Split” made about $40 million during its opening weekend, so “Glass” is performing comparably — though it seems unlikely that the movie will wildly outpace “Split,” particularly given mixed reviews from critics. (“Glass” has a 36 percent fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes.)In her review for The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the movie “enjoyable,” but wrote that its “air of misterioso quiet and encroaching, consuming terror give way to manly growling, jaw-clenching and vein-popping, and everything falls to pieces in a poorly conceptualized and staged blowout.”STX’s “The Upside,” which was No. 1 in ticket sales last weekend despite the controversy surrounding Kevin Hart, one of its stars, came in second place with about $15.7 million, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data.Aside from “Glass,” the only other newcomer in the top five was Funimation’s “Dragon Ball Super: Broly,” a Japanese anime movie and the latest entry in the long-running “Dragon Ball” franchise, which made $8.7 million during its opening weekend to finish fourth.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyWhen Zion Williamson of Duke went down with a severed shoe and a sprained knee 30 seconds into Wednesday night’s showdown with North Carolina, it was bad news for plenty involved. Williamson now has to deal with an injury. Duke had to play its archrival without its best player and duly lost, 88-72. Nike faced questions about its product’s apparent failure.But ESPN, broadcasting the contest as part of its multibillion-dollar deal with the Atlantic Coast Conference, did just fine. The game’s biggest star was injured for nearly 99 percent of the game, yet on Thursday, the network reported that the rivalry had produced its highest-ever ratings for a weeknight college basketball game.The episode crystallized the economic limitations that N.C.A.A. amateurism and N.B.A. rules impose on Williamson, a preternatural talent, and the unique ways that they limit the income of a unique player.If the N.B.A. did not bar high schoolers from heading straight to the league — a rule that may disappear in a few years — then Williamson could already have been playing for, say, the Atlanta Hawks and making several million dollars on his rookie contract. If N.C.A.A. rules did not prevent players from signing endorsements, Williamson could already have been receiving millions from Nike.However, barring an outright catastrophe, Williamson, the likely top draft pick, will be getting paid, soon and well, and at a time when his economic productivity is even higher than it is today. His specialness, though, obscures what some suggest is the greatest injustice of college sports’ policy of amateurism.In contrast to Williamson and a few other superstars, most players in college basketball are denied the right to cash in during what is very likely their moment of peak economic value.“The top guys are worth a lot — on the order of millions a year,” said Daniel Rascher, a sports economist who has studied the economic value of college athletes. “But the seven, eight, nine guys,” he added, referring to the players further down the depth chart, “are going to be several hundred thousand a year in terms of the incremental revenue they bring to the school.”Take Duke’s Jordan Goldwire. He was a midrated recruit out of high school, and his options besides Duke included midmajor programs such as Eastern Kentucky, Coastal Carolina and Nevada-Las Vegas. He is probably not bound for N.B.A. riches. This season, he has not played at all in three A.C.C. games and has averaged fewer than seven minutes in those he has played in. He played eight minutes against the Tar Heels on Wednesday. But that actually made him an essential contributor to a two-hour broadcast worth a lot of money to Duke, the A.C.C. and ESPN.“If you look at the N.B.A., the guys who don’t play very much still get paid a lot,” Rascher said.Or forget about Duke and think of the players at whichever team makes the N.C.A.A. tournament out of the Big South or the Patriot League. Part of that billion-dollar event’s charm comes from the quirky matchups — and the potential for exciting upsets — when such teams face juggernauts like Duke and Kansas in the early rounds. Players on those teams, too, are producing a real financial return for the N.C.A.A., for its member colleges and for CBS and Turner Sports, even though their abilities will never be remotely so lucrative again. Yet they are prohibited from taking more than a relatively small, prescribed share of that value.Moreover, all of these players, too, are risking futures in professional basketball — more of them than you might think. While fewer than 5 percent of Division I men’s basketball players are drafted into the N.B.A., the N.C.A.A. said last year, around half go on to play pro basketball in some form, such as in foreign leagues. From teams in the five top conferences, the N.C.A.A. added, more than three-quarters of players go on to be paid to play.The college sports establishment’s common rebuttal to these lines of thinking is that not paying the players beyond scholarships and related costs is actually crucial to the popularity of their sports.Last year, in a federal lawsuit challenging the N.C.A.A.’s restrictions on compensation from an antitrust perspective, Mike Aresco, a former sports television executive who is now commissioner of the American Athletic Conference, testified that college players’ amateur status was a feature of their sports’ appeal, not a bug.“It resonated with fans because it wasn’t professionalized at all,” he said, according to a court transcript, while serving as a witness for several conferences and the N.C.A.A. itself. “And it was presented and framed as college students, as college sports.”Among other things, this distinction differentiated college basketball and college football from minor league sports, Aresco said. “And that was very important,” he added, “because minor leagues had never been popular.”He said: “People view college sports separately. And we always maintained that separation.”Rascher was a witness for the plaintiffs in that case, in which a decision is expected any day. His reply to arguments like Aresco’s was to point to the experiment of sorts that took place a few years ago, when the N.C.A.A. permitted colleges to offer athletes funds that included the so-called full cost of attendance. After players began to be “paid” slightly more than they had previously been, college sports’ popularity was not measurably affected.Williamson’s injury in the marquee game of the regular season, particularly so early in the contest, appeared to be a devastating blow to Duke, which entered as a 9-point favorite yet never led once. Being magnanimous, Roy Williams, North Carolina’s colorful coach, acknowledged as much afterward.“Be honest,” he said. “When the big fella goes out of the game, it changes a lot of stuff for them.”Judging from the final score, Williams was right. But be honest: If you looked only at the bottom line, you would not even know that the big fella was gone.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanOn Wednesday afternoon, the lead story on DenverBroncos.com was about Joe Flacco. So were the website’s top three featured videos. The team also posted about Flacco on Twitter and Facebook.All of that happened while Flacco, a Super Bowl-winning quarterback, was still officially a member of the Baltimore Ravens.In the Broncos’ latest attempt to solve their quarterback problems, they are expected to trade for Flacco, but the N.F.L. calendar does not allow the deal to be completed until March. That leaves the team in the awkward position of trying to acknowledge the move without stating that it happened.Breaking down the media reports of a trade for Joe Flacco » https://t.co/m6M6PzM6Kd pic.twitter.com/A6m5qFifgkProvided the deal, first reported by ESPN, does not fall apart, the Broncos will presumably be replacing Case Keenum, the incumbent starter at quarterback.Flacco, 34, got off to a 4-5 start last season with Baltimore before missing some time with an injury, then lost his job because of a remarkable performance by his substitute, Lamar Jackson, whom the Ravens had chosen in the first round of the 2018 draft.Flacco, a first-round pick by the Ravens in 2008, had started 157 of Baltimore’s 163 games leading up to the hip injury that effectively ended his time with the team. His tenure included five 10-win seasons and reached its peak in 2011, when he led a thrilling run through the playoffs that culminated in a win over the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII.The Broncos, who signed Keenum as a free agent last off-season, finished 6-10 in 2018, the third consecutive year in which they failed to make the playoffs.Despite having John Elway, a Hall of Fame quarterback who won two Super Bowls with the Broncos, running the team’s football operations, Denver has struggled considerably at the position in recent years.Peyton Manning was a shell of himself as the Broncos’ quarterback in 2015, but the defense and running game did enough to dominate the Carolina Panthers in Super Bowl 50. A parade of quarterbacks since — Trevor Siemian, Paxton Lynch, Brock Osweiler and Keenum have all started games — have failed to live up to that standard, combining to go 20-28.Now the Broncos appear to be turning to Flacco, who has no guaranteed money left in his contract but has base salaries over the next three years of $18.5 million, $20.25 million and $24.25 millionThe notion that Flacco is an upgrade from Keenum is debatable. In his lone season with Denver, Keenum, 30, completed 62.3 percent of his passes, with 18 touchdowns, 15 interceptions and an adjusted-yards-per-pass figure of 6.1. Those numbers were well below what he had produced as a fill-in starter for Minnesota in the previous season. But the numbers make him, at the very least, competitive with Flacco, who is more than three years older and had 12 touchdowns, six interceptions and 6.4 adjusted yards per pass.Keenum, who is guaranteed $7 million of his $18 million salary next season, will presumably be shopped to other teams.The move, while somewhat questionable for Denver, makes sense for Baltimore. The team was in a tailspin when Flacco was injured, and it appeared that Coach John Harbaugh’s job was in jeopardy.After Jackson stepped in, the offense was reborn as a run-first attack unlike anything the league had seen in decades. Jackson went 6-1 as a starter, and while his passing clearly needed work, he ran for 695 yards, or 4.7 yards a carry.Despite a devastating wild-card round loss to the Los Angeles Chargers, the Ravens were presumably already committed to Jackson as their starter. The Broncos are expected to send the Ravens a fourth-round draft pick, giving Baltimore a decent return on a player who had gone just 24-27 over the last four seasons.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongPORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Ed Hobson stood up in the bleachers along the first-base line at Field 7 in the Mets’ spring training facility Saturday morning, having driven 300 miles to monitor one man.“Hoping to meet St. Timothy,” said Hobson, an assistant chief at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers. “We even have a four-foot alligator in front of our house. We named him Tebow because he’s the greatest Gator of all time.”He was referring, of course, to Tim Tebow, the former football player and current Mets farmhand. Hobson, a University of Florida alumnus like Tebow, had never seen him in the flesh, but he wore a T-shirt emblazoned “Team Tebow.” Hobson’s 6-year-old son, Liam, wore a replica of Tebow’s old No. 15 Florida football jersey.They were on a family pilgrimage. The night before, they hopped in a Honda Odyssey at their home near the Georgia coast to observe the latest stop on Tebow’s baseball journey. Father and son moved closer to the chain-link fence as Tebow made the first steps in his transition from a Class AA All-Star to training for the Syracuse Mets in Class AAA.Tebow, 31, strode into this third spring training with a confident gait, intent on not repeating past missteps. Last February, Tebow failed to make it past a sprinkler head during drill work and sprained his ankle. The injury worsened as a result of Tebow’s refusal to rest, and he collected just one hit in 18 at-bats, all as a designated hitter, in seven spring games.“I didn’t play one snap of outfield,” he said Saturday before catching his slip into football vernacular.Forgive Tebow. In the gig economy, he has remained on the go. During the fall and winter, he returned to work as a college football analyst for ESPN. Still, he swung in batting cages on college campuses between on-camera appearances. On the day of the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, he performed his television duties in the morning, went to Tulane University for batting practice and then returned to the stadium for the game. In a suite, he discussed his swing with his hitting coach, Jay Gibbons, the former Dodger and Oriole who travels with Tebow.“When you give me enough time, I’m going to just make up that ground, those tiny inches every day,” Tebow said. “That’s my mind-set: Just keep working; get a little bit better.”Though Tebow has been out of the N.F.L. since 2015 — and had not appeared in a regular-season game since 2012 — football still calls. In recent weeks, Tebow turned down an offer to play for Coach Steve Spurrier’s Orlando Apollos in the Alliance of American Football, a nascent league populated with former N.F.L. players like Tebow, who played three seasons. Before reporting to Mets camp, Tebow also walked down the red carpet at the premiere of “Run the Race,” a faith-based movie he co-produced with his brother, Robby.He maintained, though, that neither film nor football could lure him away from the diamond now.“No way could I stop and not give this the chance after everything I’ve worked for,” he said. “This is what I’m in now, and I’m all in.”Tebow commenced his latest campaign in the batting cage. He then ran down fly balls in the outfield, backpedaling and making over-the-shoulder catches. When he walked to home plate with his bat, he received hugs from Omar Minaya, the special assistant to the general manager; Brodie Van Wagenen, the general manager; and Fred Wilpon, the team owner. On pitch after pitch, Tebow, who batted .273 with the Class AA Binghamton Rumble Ponies last summer, turned his hips and connected with the ball. Seven of his hits cleared the right-field fence.“It’s raw power,” Manager Mickey Callaway said. “It’s real. The bat moves through the zone pretty swiftly. He’s got to continue to work on handling certain zones, but he puts the barrel on the ball, and it goes a long way.”Tebow also could not help but weigh in on the recent story that transcended both of his sports. While on assignment for ESPN, he met Kyler Murray, the Oklahoma quarterback who won the Heisman Trophy last season after being picked by Oakland in the first round of the Major League Baseball draft. Murray recently announced his decision to play football professionally, instead of baseball. Tebow, who won the Heisman Trophy in 2007, understood his position better than most.“I think this was a really tough decision for him,” Tebow said. “He loves two sports, and I can really relate to that. And he went with something that he’s been really good at lately and dominating in. When we talked about it, and we did talk about that, I just gave him the advice to follow your heart. Whatever you’re passionate about.”He recalled telling Murray: “You know what? Don’t do it for your agents, or your friends and sometimes necessarily even your family. Do it for what’s on your heart, and don’t let other people define you. You’re going to have all these coaches that you look up to and everybody else that’s going to tell you what they think, but what’s most important is following your heart and your passion.”Reminders of Tebow’s past life greeted him on the other side of the fence after his first workout. One spectator held up a photo of him celebrating with football teammates at Florida. Another held out a Jets jersey with his No. 15 stitched into it. Tebow scrawled his signature for children as he tucked his yellow birch bat with “John 16:33” — a Scripture passage about taking heart and finding peace — marked on the barrel beneath his arm.Anticipation grew for Donna Taaffee, a fan, as she watched him approach.“He’s getting closer!” she said. “Oh my goodness, he’s getting closer!”Tebow smiled as he passed. He then shook the hand of Hobson, whose son held out a baseball and pen for Tebow to sign. Tebow obliged.Hobson joked about catching up later on with Tebow, who recently got engaged to Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, the 2017 Miss Universe pageant winner.“My co-worker and I are going to crash his wedding,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byImpeachment is tempting. But there’s a stronger case for waiting for the 2020 election.By Michael TomaskyContributing Opinion WriterLast weekend, a smart friend of mine raised an interesting question: Would political opponents of Donald Trump rather see him removed from office via impeachment and conviction, or would we rather see him voted out of office in 2020?The question has the makings of a parlor game that could occupy the passions of anti-Trump Americans for months. Strong cases can be made for both sides of the argument. I come down on the side of the ballot box, and firmly so, because it has more historical authority and legitimacy — and for one other reason that I’ll reveal in a bit.The impeachment side of the argument, though, isn’t to be dismissed out of hand. It’s true that impeachment is a political process, and getting enough Republicans to support removing a president from their party would take a formidable list of offenses. But to a lot of us, the list is already quite formidable — Mr. Trump has, by any common-sense definition, obstructed justice repeatedly in public. Many House Democrats are raring to go with what they have; Representative Brad Sherman of California has already introduced his own articles of impeachment against Mr. Trump.And there is likely to be much more. For the moment, let’s presume that several months from now, Robert Mueller has given us evidence of obstruction, cooperation with Russians during the 2016 campaign and compelling evidence that Russian banks on some level “own” Mr. Trump. And that’s leaving aside everything investigators may be learning about the Trump Organization from Michael Cohen and Allen Weisselberg.Let’s also assume that House Democrats will have done their work and, at a minimum, documented numerous and ghastly Trump family violations of the emoluments clause. Remember also on that front that two lawsuits are working their way through the federal courts, so let’s imagine that they are allowed to proceed as well. This is to say nothing of the instances of more banal forms of corruption Democrats may have unearthed through their own investigations this year that could rightly be called high crimes and misdemeanors. In sum, let us say that by next football season, the president’s goose will be well and truly cooked, and House impeachment proceedings seem amply justified.There will then hang the question of whether 20 Senate Republicans — at least, assuming that all 47 Democrats would vote to convict — would actually agree to remove Mr. Trump from office. That seems exceedingly unlikely.But whether they would or would not, many would argue that Democrats would still have a constitutional responsibility to exercise. Impeachment is the only remedy the founders provided for removing from office someone who is clearly unfit to hold it. If all of what I stipulated above happens and the Democrats don’t act, aren’t they saying the Constitution is meaningless? If you can’t impeach a president whose very election is found to have been illegitimate, then whom can you impeach? And how do you recover, as a country, from such a bitterly partisan episode? Those are good questions. But they have an obvious answer. While impeachment is clearly a valid exercise of power, so is another method of removal, also prescribed by the Constitution: an election. This is how Americans like to ditch presidents and parties they don’t like — presidential power has changed hands 44 times in this country’s history.In addition, nine incumbent presidents have lost re-election, including three in the last half-century, and all have peacefully (if not always gracefully) yielded power. In contrast, only two presidents, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, have been impeached by the House, though both were acquitted in the Senate. Richard Nixon, facing certain and imminent impeachment, resigned.That’s a historical record that suggests that an electoral outcome will be much more widely accepted. Mr. Trump’s partisans will whine about the unfairness of it all in either case — they’ll blame “voter fraud,” or George Soros, or the “fake news media.” But if the voters have rebuffed the president, the whining will sound to most Americans like just that.There’s one more reason I’d prefer to see Mr. Trump laid low via the ballot. It will do more long-term damage to the Republican Party.If Mr. Trump is removed via impeachment and conviction — that is, with those 20 Republican votes — Republicans can say, “See, we’ve come to our senses; got that out of our system.” But if they renominate Mr. Trump and stick with him through November 2020 and the voters clearly say no, not again, Republicans are left sitting in the wreckage. They will be trying to air out the Trump stench for a generation, maybe two, which is precisely the fate they deserve.True, this carries the risk that Mr. Trump might win in 2020. But the impeachment process carries the (considerable) risk that a Senate conviction will fall short, which would enable Mr. Trump to seek re-election as the victim of those vicious Democrats and of the enemy of the people, the press. Nothing in life is risk free.But risk’s opposite is reward, and in this case the far greater reward — for liberals and Democrats, yes, but also for our democracy itself — is the one that would come on the night of Nov. 3, 2020, when perhaps a record number of voters will cast their ballots and a decisive majority will say to Mr. Trump: Go home.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast, editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas and a contributing opinion writer.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. I was out in Portland, Ore., a while back for work, but I got nights off to see family and we used one of them to go to Han Oak, a casual-fantastic Korean restaurant owned and operated by the chef Peter Cho and his wife, Sun Young Park. A meal at Han Oak is essentially a meal in the couple’s home, the dining room crowded with new friends and everywhere the smell of wood smoke and crisping beef. We ordered the whole menu, and it was a revelation. But one dish in particular stuck out so much that I interrogated Cho about it that night in the restaurant, and later over the phone.Those conversations became the heart of my “Eat” column for The Times this week, and they led to this incredible recipe for Cho’s galbijjim (above), the classic Korean short-rib stew. I hope you will make galbijjim this weekend, to serve as many people as you can manage. The recipe calls for the addition of rice cakes at the end, but if you can’t find any at the market, don’t worry. Just serve the stew with rice. It’s so great.Make some stew this weekend, anyway, even if you don’t thrill to the flavors of Korea. For myself, I like this Doc Willoughby recipe for a cold-start tagine-style lamb stew. I like David Tanis’s recipe for mushroom stew as well. (As I do, come to think of it, his recipe for lobster stew with a pastry lid.) Julia Moskin’s spicy peanut stew with ginger and tomato is terrific vegan fare. My recipe for Jamaican oxtail stew is plain terrific. All the stews!Of course, stew’s not for everyone. So you might make pan pizza this weekend. (Recently, in Step 3 of that recipe, I’ve been using my stand mixer to really zip the dough around on high, which has worked wonders down the line, during the proofing.) You could make eggs Benedict. There are two big football games on Sunday. You should make game-day nachos. Chicken wings. Stuffed jalapeños. A fried eggplant hero.Rich fare, I know! For those who don’t want to play, try out some sweet and spicy tofu with soba noodles instead. A winter vegetable curry. Anna Jones’s amazing warm kale salad with coconut and tomato, so great.There are thousands and thousands of recipes awaiting your attentions on NYT Cooking. Go take a look, see what intrigues. (Yes, you need to be a subscriber to do that. Here is how to become one.) Come visit us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter as well, or find me personally: @samsifton. Run into trouble along the way, with your cooking, with our technology? Write for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get back to you.Now, please read this beautiful, haunting excerpt from a new memoir by Tommy Tomlinson that ran in The Atlantic recently, “The Weight I Carry.”Also this beautiful, haunting essay by Russell Worth Parker in Lauren Katzenberg’s essential At War section of The Times, “I’m Prepared to Talk About the Things I Did in Iraq. Are People Ready to Listen?”You should check out, as well, this Dwight Garner review in The Times of Doug Bock Clark’s new book, “The Last Whalers: Three Years in the Far Pacific With a Courageous Tribe and a Vanishing Way of Life.”(On a similar subject, and in case you missed me writing about it before: Robert Sullivan’s fantastic “A Whale Hunt: How a Native-American Village Did What No One Thought It Could.” Also, likewise, Julia O’Malley’s article for High Country News, “The Teenage Whaler’s Tale,” which has one of the best opening sentences in the history of whaling literature.)Finally, and nothing to do with cakes or ale: This is Jah Division, “Dub Will Tear Us Apart.” Have a great weekend. I’ll be back on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Trip GabrielThomas K. Norment Jr., the powerful Republican majority leader in the Virginia Senate, was a top editor of a 1968 college yearbook that included several photographs of students in blackface as well as racist slurs.Mr. Norment, 72, a longtime fixture and political broker in the State Legislature, is the first Republican to be swept up in Virginia’s ongoing political crisis over racist behavior in the past. The Virginian-Pilot newspaper first reported on the photos and material on Thursday.As a senior at Virginia Military Institute, then an all-male college that was sometimes called “the West Point of the South,’’ Mr. Norment was managing editor of the 1968 edition of the Bomb yearbook. That edition included students in blackface and slurs aimed at African-Americans, Asians and Jews, according to a copy viewed by The New York Times.Mr. Norment, in a statement released by his office Thursday, said, “The use of blackface is abhorrent in our society and I emphatically condemn it.” He said he was part of a seven-member team at the Bomb, “a 359-page yearbook,” and added, “I cannot endorse or associate myself with every photo, entry, or word on each page.” He noted that he did not appear in the offensive pictures and said he did not take those photos.The images surfaced in the wake of acknowledgments by two Virginia leaders, Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, that they had each worn blackface as young men. The admissions by those two Democrats have plunged Virginia into turmoil and led to calls for both men’s resignations. A third Democratic leader, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, is facing an allegation of sexual assault.The Bomb yearbook includes a photograph of two smiling people in blackface holding a football, one with a cigarette and white military hat. In another photo, a young man is in blackface posing with others apparently at a party.The yearbook includes page after page of seniors posed in starched white military shirts, or sometimes informally, accompanied by breezy descriptions of their sports and social activities. Some of these descriptions refer to students with slurs and obscenities.Virginia Military Institute, founded two decades before the Civil War, is a state-supported academy that has long been favored by prominent Virginia families. It only admitted African-Americans in 1968, the year that Mr. Norment graduated. Women were first admitted about three decades later.Mr. Northam, the governor, graduated from the institute in 1981, where his yearbook entry included the nickname “Coonman.’’ He went on to Eastern Virginia Medical School, where a photograph from his 1984 yearbook page surfaced last week showing a figure in blackface and another in K.K.K. robes.A statement by Mr. Norment on the yearbook’s page dedicated to its editors, reads, “It has been the objective of this year’s Bomb staff to concentrate on the VMI as it exists in actuality, not in theory.”Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongPORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Pete Alonso, the most intriguing prospect in Mets camp, spent last year putting together one of the most productive minor-league seasons in Mets history. He started his off-season by getting engaged to be married. His next task: winning the four-man competition to start at first base on Opening Day.“I want to force someone’s hand,” he said. “I want to come in here and be the best option.”Alonso, 24, has a history of making a strong early impression. His first word as a baby, he said, was “ball.” At the Futures Game during All-Star weekend last summer, he rerouted a 95 miles-per-hour pitch from the Phillies prospect Adonis Medina 415 feet for a home run to left. At the Fall Stars game in Arizona in November, he sent a 103 m.p.h. fastball from the Blue Jays prospect Nate Pearson over the fence in straightaway center.“I didn’t even know how I hit it,” Alonso said. “I just closed my eyes and touched it.”And in the Mets’ spring opener on Saturday, he did it again: hitting a home run on the first pitch he saw.Alonso, a 6-foot-3, 240-pound infielder who was drafted in the second round in 2016, opened eyes all last year, proving he had rare power. But he still has questions to answer: Is his defense strong enough to start him at first base, and, beyond this spring, can he become a right-handed anchor in the heart of the Mets’ lineup for years to come?“The only thing I can control is with my own two hands: hit the ball, playing good defense,” Alonso said. “That’s all I can do. Whatever happens, happens.”He’s done the first part supremely well. Between Class AA Binghamton and Class AAA Las Vegas last year, he hit 36 home runs with 119 R.B.I. and a .975 O.P.S., pushing him past his fellow farmhand Dominic Smith on the organizational depth chart.Still, the Mets, who were out of contention, declined to promote Alonso to the majors during September call-ups, citing his defense as one area that needed improvement. Alonso’s agents, Adam Karon and Tripper Johnson, publicly questioned the decision, calling it “disheartening for Peter after producing an historically great season.”He stayed busy in the off-season. After proposing to his girlfriend, Haley Walsh, in November with a ring he bought in Vegas, he went back to work on his fielding. He dropped 12 pounds during winter workouts with Steven Negron, a former minor league infielder. Before showing up early for spring training, Alonso sent videos of his defensive workouts to General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen, hoping to beat out Smith, Todd Frazier and J.D. Davis for the first-baseman position.“As much as the hitting is fun to watch, we had a pretty good idea what he could do offensively,” said Van Wagenen. “His defensive strides have been pretty remarkable.”Manager Mickey Callaway called Alonso “probably the most improved defensive guy” that the Mets have seen in some time. Callaway recalled being chided by a member of the grounds crew last spring when parts of the infield were chewed up early one morning. Callaway knew Alonso had been taking extra ground balls.“He actually ruined the field,” Callaway said. “The groundskeeper comes in and goes, ‘Hey man, what are you doing to the field?’ I’m like, ‘That’s Pete Alonso.’ He’s just out there working. That’s who he is. He’s going to continue to improve no matter where you put him.”Growing up in Florida, Alonso played football and lacrosse until after his freshman year in high school, when he focused on baseball. At the University of Florida, where he played three collegiate seasons, his big bat and uncommon toughness caught the eye of Brad Weitzel, a former scout for the Minnesota Twins who was a coach on the Gators’ staff. Alonso sustained a broken nose after a ball he hit in the batting cage ricocheted off a pole and struck him in the face. But he refused to sit on the bench long, returning to the diamond with a protective mask over his batting helmet.“It was frightening for me,” his mother, Michelle Alonso, said. “Crazy Peter wanted to play. It was still technically broken. He likes to keep me on my toes.”Weitzel said he watched Alonso “take over the program as a leader.” One day during the first spring after Alonso had played professionally, Weitzel noticed Alonso did not pick up a bat during a workout with younger Gators — a departure from the days when he would shrug off defensive work in favor of working on hitting.“I told him there were days when he was at Florida that he didn’t know where his glove was,” Weitzel said. “He knew that professionals are paid to win. He was growing up.”Alonso and Weitzel continue to check in on each other. Weitzel counseled Alonso through his frustrations last fall, and explained that it was a business move for the Mets. When the Gators lost back-to-back games last week, Alonso called his old coach.For all the focus on his defense, however, Alonso has continued working on his hitting. Whether he can turn into a towering, Aaron Judge-like presence in the Mets’ order will only become clear with time, but Alonso was still embracing new challenges last week. First, he faced Jacob deGrom, the Cy Young Award winner, in batting practice. Then, he squared off against the hard-throwing Noah Syndergaard.“It’s good to see the best,” Alonso said of trying to adjust to the majors. “It’s just all about staying disciplined, being able to capitalize. I’ve got to be ready for everything.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLife as a Runway“You do not want to have something penetrate the bottom of your foot.” By John OrtvedOne Wall Street, a 50-story Art Deco skyscraper completed in 1931, is being carved into 566 condos and retail space. With prices averaging $3 million, it will likely draw bankers, tech executives and members of the New York’s swelling plutocracy. But until its doors open in 2020, it is the temporary home for some 400 workers, most of them in construction, who spend their days feeding the city’s building boom. Here’s what eight of them wore under their hard hats. Age: 42Occupation: shop stewardWhy is there a “no rat” sticker on your hat? In the basements of the buildings and stuff. I’m not a big fan of them.It has nothing to do with rats, like non-union labor?You could take it both ways, but it’s not really for that purpose.Tell me how you suit up for work.You always dress warm in renovation projects because the of the open areas. I wear Timberlands, which is standard.Jeans?Typical work jeans. Gap or Levi’s. These are insulated so you don’t have to wear long johns underneath. And then a vest and a sweatshirt, from Carhartt. T-shirt and long-sleeve shirt.That’s a lot of laundry.It’s a lot of laundry for the wife, not for me.Age: 19Occupation: apprentice carpenterWhat have you built?Different stuff. I built a table, doors. I’ve protected windows.Are you wearing two sweatshirts?Yeah. The outer one is high-vis clothing, so anyone can see me coming.Your T-shirt underneath is orange too. Did you do that on purpose?Yeah, so if it gets hot I can take my sweatshirt off and still have high-vis underneath.What’s under your hood?It’s a do-rag, to keep my head warm. You can get them at any pharmacy where I live in the Bronx.Are your Carhartt pants for warmth, too?And they have a lot of pockets that I can put my tools in. My knife, pencils, snips.Age: 36Occupation: laborer, Local 79What’s your job?As a laborer, you got to make sure that everything is tight, clean. See there’s nothing in your way that you could fall and crack your head open, nothing like that.What do you wear on your feet?These are Wolverines. Steel toe. You want to step on them? Go ahead. Jump on ’em.How do you dress for work in the winter?Layers, layers, layers. You can’t put on a big bubble coat and come to work.What are your shirt layers?I got an Under Armour shirt, I got a long john, I got a flannel with the wool inside, and I got a hoodie. I got them from Amazon. It’s the easiest.Do you prefer to work in the winter or summer?Doesn’t matter.Why not?You’ve got to get paid.Age: 36Occupation: laborerDoes your jacket keep you warm?Sí.And where do you get it?Macy’s.How many layers total?Three. And a hat.And are you gloves for warmth, too, or protection?For work.Age: 47Occupation: construction logistics manager, J.T. Magen & CompanyHow do you dress for work?I think about comfort, warmth, somewhat professional looking.Where do you get your nice gingham shirt?I have to say, my wife got it for me.Do you know where she gets them?I’m not sure. Maybe J. Crew or Banana Republic.Where did you get your shoes?I don’t know.Your watch is not subtle.It’s a G-Shock. It can take the punches on a construction site. I can smash it into the brick. I might injure myself, but the watch will be fine.What do you put in your little notebook?It’s a large construction site. There’s a lot going on, a lot to remember.Age: 51Occupation: construction superintendentWhat does a super do?We direct the trades and bring the job in at a particular time, and really manage the job from start to finish. Before this, I was in the computer field for 15 years.How do you get dressed for work?You have to have proper shoes, pants, warm jacket. Our company gave us these Helly Hansen ones. Under that I wear a hoodie and two or three layers. Today it’s 50 degrees so I leave the hoodie hanging up in my locker.Where do you pick up your cargo pants?Modell’s. They’re cheap, they’re lined, 20 bucks. When you’re finished with them, just throw them out.Age: “Over 50”Occupation: architect, properties director, Macklowe PropertiesHow’s everything going?I’m glad to say we’re making some forward progress.What do you wear on site visits?The most important thing on a construction site is what you wear on your feet. Today I went with Italian boots. They’re Gravati. You do not want to have something penetrate the bottom of your foot.Where did you get your jacket from?The one underneath is Akris. It’s like a biker jacket.What about your scarf?It’s Paul Stuart. The jacket too. It’s old, like 25 years old. My whole paycheck back then. And then some.What’s your watch?It’s a Rolex. Simple. Very architectural.Was that your second paycheck?Yes.Age: 52Occupation: head of securityYour look is almost paramilitary.Actually it is paramilitary. This is a protective vest. Level 3 Kevlar.Who’s going to shoot at you down here?You never know. We’re posted out front. These guys outside the stock exchange, they’re dressed the same way.Where do you get your boots?Tactical boots, ordered from paramilitary sites. I don’t want to promote anybody, but I do use Condor.And a thermal under your vest?This is dry wear, pulls sweat off, retains body heat. On top is a shirt that salutes my favorite football team, the Patriots.Is it tough being a Pats fan on a New York City construction site?Absolutely. All day I get nothing but Jets and Giants fans coming at me.The interviews have been edited and condensed.An earlier version of this article misstated Cary Levy's title at J.T. Magen & Company. He is the construction logistics manager, not the assistant superintendent.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byReader IdeaBy Emma TsaiEnglish teachers have long employed mentor texts — pieces that can be studied and imitated as examples of great writing — in their writing lessons. In this Reader Idea, Emma Tsai, an English teacher at Episcopal High School in Houston, and a writer herself, tells us how she teaches with mentor sentences from The New York Times — bite-sized nuggets of excellent writing that her students learn to identify in real-world writing and then use in their own creative pieces. We love the way she breaks down the sometimes overwhelming task of teaching writing into digestible bites. Students read an article of their choice, identify well-written sentences, and then imitate them in their own piece of writing. She says the results have been astonishing — especially for struggling writers. What makes this lesson work so well? It’s “the combination of seeing writing done well out there in the world, plus their writing and reading about something they already find interesting,” she says.Best of all, these activities can be used by any teacher with any day’s Times.Do you teach with The Times? Tell us about it here, or browse our full collection of Reader Ideas._________As an English teacher who is also a writer, I never stop looking for ways for my students to learn writing in an authentic way. I believe writing can be taught and learned, through not only practice but really approaching the craft formulaically until it becomes more natural. Learning to write well means reading strong writing, studying its structure and form, and copying it stylistically until a writer finds his or her own voice.In my writing classes, I teach grammar principles over the course of a few weeks, which I teach through a PowerPoint presentation with examples of the principles in a few sentences. Then, I have my students use them immediately in a creative writing assignment. After a month or so of such lessons, I’ll focus on grammar in application by sending them to The New York Times website.The Times is a great source of interesting content and well-written prose. As a publication that features many human interest stories, the newspaper also offers a wide array of topics that can intrigue students of multiple backgrounds and interests.As a one-to-one laptop school, my students benefit from being able to use the web independently in class. I ask them to access The Times website and I direct them toward a particular article of interest to me, like “In Life’s Last Moments, Open a Window,” an Opinion piece written by a doctor about her hospice patients.The first thing I do is offer a model of what they’ll do independently in the next few minutes. I identify three sentences that do something well.For instance, a sentence with an interruption separated by em dashes:When I re-entered the room, the reclining chair that the patient — a tall, angular man in his 80s — had been thrashing around in had been turned to face out onto the garden and the double doors were open wide.A short punchy sentence:All he had wanted was that view.And a sentence with a strong verb:All cancers have the power to ravage a body, but each assails in distinctive ways.Other examples might include the use of independent and dependent clauses, gerunds, absolute phrases and participial phrases.I then write my own sentences demonstrating each of those strong writing tactics on a completely separate topic._________The students’ task: From the Times website, I ask my students to pick an article of interest to them — either from the home page or by using the search feature to find an article on a particular topic they want to read about, like sports or animals. They then read the article with a highlighter and highlight sentences they feel are particularly well written.Once they’ve done that, they have to repeat what they see — in at least three sentences — in a piece of creative writing of their own. This might mean adding an impactful introductory sentence, incorporating introductory clauses, varying sentence length, diversifying verb choice or anything else.This activity teaches my students a number of lessons, whether they are conscious of it or not: that the news can interest them; that good writing can be found everywhere about nearly every kind of topic; that writing isn’t a mysterious, magical talent but can be learned and imitated; and that there are many different types of ways a writer can write well.Here are a few examples of student-chosen mentor sentences followed by their own writing:Example 1:Model: But while his family has welcomed them back, hers is another matter.Student sentence: But while I have finished packing for the trip, my sister is another matter.Example 2:History and philosophy alike counsel that the most practical course is to moderate class conflict, not by pretending it away, but through the self-assertion of the weaker classes and institutionalized recognition of their interests.Not after long the football team continued to win, not through luck but through strength and togetherness shown by all the players on the team.Example 3:Then, below the chimneys, a pigeon cartwheels like a thrown firework through a broken window into the darkness beyond.Last night it was super cold, like the climate on a high mountain in the winter.Example 4:After nearly a year on the run, a pair of star-crossed young lovers are back in the Afghan village where both their love affair and their problems began.After eight hours of school work, I can finally go back to the comfort and safety of my home.Example 5:If I desired it, it was mine as if by birthright, for the simple reason that English was my native tongue.If I so desire to play sports in college, it is mine for the taking, but that does not mean I do not have to work for it.Example 6:But not long afterward, I fell in love with him, not through the charm of performance but through the hallucinatory power of his language.But not long afterward, I was filled with resentment, not necessarily because I had done something wrong but because I knew how angry it would make my friend._________I’ve also extended this lesson with vocabulary. For this activity, I pulled words from an SAT book, then had students read the Modern Love essay “Need to Find Me? As My Ham Man.” The piece begins:The man who sells me ham is the first person who would notice if I were dead. Experience supports this claim.When my grandmother died unexpectedly three years ago, I left Paris for the funeral without warning any of my local shopkeepers. This led my charcuterie salesman to believe that I myself was dead.Alarmed by my continued absence, and aware of my daily dining route, he hurried across the street to my wine guy to see if he had any news of me. I’m the human equivalent of a stray dog who wanders from shop to shop in search of whoever will give me a snack.My wine guy hadn’t seen me in days either, so he called my friend, who explained about the family emergency. When I finally returned from Boston, there was no need to explain where I had been; the whole neighborhood had been alerted. And they turned out with hugs, condolences, even chocolates.Students then emulated — sentence by sentence — the sentence structure of the piece, and incorporated five SAT words of their choice.This activity shows students the importance of a punchy sentence, the flexibility of phrases and clauses, and how different sentence beginnings can add energy to prose. Their end result had to flow as a story and make sense, which also taught them cohesiveness and creativity.Here’s what they came up with:Example 1:The man who sells eloquent glassware is the first person who would notice my inevitable death. Experience supports this claim.When my exorbitant brother died unexpectedly three years ago, I left Paris in a panic not realizing how much damage this inevitable death would deal to the family. This led to a sentimental service.Alarmed by my continued absence, and assiduous about my dead brother the salesman went on making the small glass hummingbirds with great care. As I learned more and more about my brother and his pricey habits I realized just how inevitable his death was.My family hadn’t seen my brother in days and missed him so much, so I called a friend to compensate my feelings. When I finally returned home there was nothing to help me grieve.Example 2:The man who sells me pencils is very assiduous and not sentimental. He is always working to help me and is happy while doing it. He is aptly about the work when I am having a bad day.When my dogs left me out of the blue three weeks ago, I left stoically without the pencil man knowing. This made him think that I did not want pencils from him anymore, but truly I still did: I was just upset about the current circumstances.Scared about my secret disappearance, my pencil man wreaked havoc attempting to find me by asking around and screaming at other vendors. I am the perfect representation of an undercover drama queen: wanting attention, but also by doing it without anyone knowing.Example 3:The barista who makes my coffee is the only person who knows my order. She tries to compensate her time by making mine beforehand when there is a long line.When my boss tells me to get his coffee, I have to leave my house early without letting my dog know. His barks are verbose and unneeded when I wake him up early.Alarmed by me not being there when he woke up, he very aptly and appropriately, went crazy trying to find me. He is the dog equivalent of a worried and sentimental mother who can’t find her child.It was inevitable and bound to happen that I would get his order wrong, so he made me go back to Starbucks, which was not a surprise. When I walked in the door, the barista saw me; and immediately started making my usual order. An iced chai latte, with almond milk, and 3 cubes of ice.The results of these lessons have been astonishing. Students who struggle with papers have turned in amazingly written pieces about playing on the football team, using a 3-D printer and exploring their identity. The combination of seeing writing done well out there in the world, plus their writing and reading about something they already find interesting, makes this lesson work.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe city’s restaurant scene has evolved since the last Super Bowl here. So look beyond downtown, enjoy the diversity and don’t forget breakfast.By Kim SeversonATLANTA — In 2000, the last time this city hosted the Super Bowl, the St. Louis Rams beat the Tennessee Titans, and Watershed had been frying its famous fried chicken in lard and sweet butter flavored with country ham for only a year.The new Southern food movement that the restaurant in nearby Decatur helped define had not yet moved North. Brooklynites weren’t worshiping biscuits, and American barbecue had not met kimchi. Only a few cooks or writers outside the South were giving serious thought to the connection between Southern food and that of West Africa.Even here, in the booming cultural and commercial center of the American South, diners had only begun to embrace a style of cooking that emphasized seasonality and history over carbohydrates and caricature. Atlanta’s most popular restaurants were local chains dipped in the glitzy, corporate sheen of the Buckhead neighborhood, and high-end steakhouses like Ruth’s Chris and Morton’s were abundant.Now, as the city prepares to show off its new $1.5 billion Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday, when the New England Patriots meet the Los Angeles Rams, Atlanta is a more evolved food town than it was then.Neighborhood beer bars and slick suburban dining rooms alike serve food that shows off Southern agriculture. Food from the region’s vast immigrant population is as celebrated as its local classics.Although diners remain loyal to local entrepreneurs like Fifth Group Restaurants, which started opening reliable spots like South City Kitchen in the 1990s, the city is less impressed by carpetbagging chains. And the ranks of talented young cooks tired of trying to compete in bigger cities continue to grow.Still, Atlanta has yet to find its footing among the nation’s great restaurant cities. Wyatt Williams, who recently quit reviewing restaurants for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, wrote in a parting column this month in Atlanta magazine that the dining scene was in a rut, riding an economic boom that has spawned cynical, money-grabbing restaurants “where the rooms are finely appointed, the menus are deeply predictable, and the cooking is barely passable.”Stephen Satterfield, a former sommelier in San Francisco who founded the food magazine Whetstone, grew up in Atlanta. During a recent trip home, he described Atlanta as an insecure food town, obsessed with how it measures up against cities with outsize culinary reputations.“It pains me to say it, but here everyone is well-intentioned and there is plenty of capital and resources, so I don’t understand why there aren’t more places that feel of the moment,” he said.Plenty of Atlanta chefs and diners would disagree, albeit politely. The trick, they advise visitors, is drilling down into the right parts of town.“You’ve got to get out of downtown,” said the chef Kevin Gillespie, a former Top Chef contestant who has three restaurants here. “Get in your Uber and go to a neighborhood. That’s where you’ll find the great stuff. You’re going to leave the city with a completely different idea of what Atlanta really is.”Of all the local chefs scrambling to be part of the Super Bowl, Mr. Gillespie is the M.V.P. He runs Gamechanger, a concession inside the Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where his “closed on Sunday” chicken sandwich — a homage to the faith-based policy that keeps Chick-fil-A restaurants shuttered on Sundays, even Super Bowl Sundays — has helped make it the highest-grossing food vendor in the arena.He is also one of three chefs whom Arthur Blank, a founder of Home Depot who bought the Atlanta Falcons in 2002, approved to cook on Thursday for the N.F.L. owners’ dinner, a traditional meal usually held at a fancy restaurant or a well-appointed home. Mr. Blank is staging the dinner at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, not far from the stadium.“It talks to the history of the city and the great connection the N.F.L. has made with the players around issues surrounding social justice,” Mr. Blank said. “We’ve moved from protest to progress.”(Some critics have complained that all three chefs are white men, though Aaron Jefferson, a general manager from the restaurant Iberian Pig who is African-American, was later added to oversee cocktails and wine.)Mr. Gillespie cautions visitors to not expect a city as explicitly Southern as, say, Charleston, S.C. “It’s not ‘Gone With the Wind’ down here,” he said. “Atlanta is a city that has always been about business. It’s not as ‘Hee Haw’-y as people think it might be.”Rather, Atlanta is a metropolis filled with a lot of people from other places. The city’s population is less than 500,000, but the region, which includes the sprawling suburbs, is home to about 5.9 million. People from small Southern towns have moved here for better jobs, and others from big American cities have come seeking less stress and a lower cost of living. The region’s mix includes immigrants from Mexico, India, South Korea and Vietnam.That influx feeds a mix of cuisines, many of them represented in hundreds of restaurants and markets on Buford Highway, the biggest concentration of which starts at the city’s northeastern edge and continues for about 10 miles. Taking measure of the highway’s offerings is a heroic task, but good resources to consult are We Love BuHi, a website and Instagram feed dedicated to the strip, and the local food writer Christiane Lauterbach’s dispatches on Twitter and in Atlanta magazine. Two favorites are the homey Korean grandma food at Yet Tuh and the terrific sambal-sauced okra and noodle and rice dishes at Food Terminal, a modern Malaysian restaurant that shares a parking lot with an expansive multicultural supermarket, a Chinese barbecue spot, a Viet-Cajun seafood restaurant and a tofu house.Atlanta has rarely met a restaurant trend it didn’t like, and right now that translates to food halls. Some of the best restaurants in town have been carved out of restored industrial spaces. Among them is Watchman’s, in the Krog Street Market, a cheery, Cuban-influenced restaurant that turns sustainably harvested Southern seafood into dishes like grilled fish collars bathed in Alabama white barbecue sauce and dappled with salsa verde. Its perfect daiquiris have developed a loyal following.Next door is the Ticonderoga Club, a cozy restaurant whose menu ranges from 48 ounces of grilled, sous-vide chuck roast to a coconut-braised eggplant dish that the chef David Bies picked up in Bali. Students of the Southern cocktail scene make regular pilgrimages to its tiny bar.The grandest food hall of them all is inside the sprawling brick Ponce City Market, a former Sears distribution center developed into a mixed-use complex by the team that created Chelsea Market in New York.Many of Atlanta’s biggest names in food have a presence here. Hugh Acheson pumps out coffee and fat squares of toast slathered with fresh local cow’s milk cheese and jam at Spiller Park, and Hector Santiago sells a fine medianoche sandwich at El Super Pan. Linton Hopkins (one in the trio of chefs cooking for the N.F.L. owners) offers a stacked cheeseburger at H&F Burger, and fried chicken and biscuits next door at a little stand called Hop’s Chicken.Anne Quatrano, the chef who began Atlanta’s farm-to-table era at her flagship restaurant Bacchanalia 25 years ago, sells fresh Gulf shrimp and oysters at W.H. Stiles Fish Camp.Ms. Quatrano, chairwoman of the James Beard Foundation’s awards committee, remains a levelheaded fan of the city’s food. Like Mr. Gillespie, she says some of the best food is found in modest, neighborhood restaurants.“There’s a lot of young talent here,” she said. “Some of it’s raw, but it’s still good. That makes for really good dining at lot of the smaller places.”One is Banshee, a boisterous restaurant inside a former lesbian bar in the charmingly scruffy East Atlanta neighborhood. Tables are packed with diners who swipe fry bread through smears of pepperoni butter, and debate whether the Sichuan-spiced pork osso buco is better than the braised onion caramelle with braised beef cheeks.At Tiny Lou’s, inside the newly refurbished Hotel Clermont, not far from Ponce City Market, Jeb Aldrich delivers a smart take on French classics, and the pastry chef Claudia Martinez makes a crêpes suzette cake that customers can’t seem to stop talking about.Atlanta also is a big breakfast town, which is why in a few weeks Ms. Quatrano will open Pancake Social, a 120-seat, all-day breakfast place in Ponce City Market. Until then, Java Jive, Highland Bakery and Home Grown, whose pancakes and chili cheese grits are worth enduring the inevitable line, all make for a fine breakfast field trip.And don’t forget Waffle House. The original restaurant in nearby Avondale Estates has been turned into the company’s museum, but there are plenty of others in full operation. (Pro tip: Order your hash browns scattered, smothered and covered, with country ham and a pecan waffle cooked dark on the side.)A hungry visitor also would do well to stroll the Atlanta BeltLine, a 22-mile loop of railroad bed that is slowly being transformed into an urban promenade not unlike the High Line in New York, except with a lot more craft breweries.Along the well-developed section that winds through the Old Fourth Ward, you’ll find Nina & Rafi, a new restaurant that serves a chicken parm that has passed the test of more than one New Yorker, old-fashioned square pizzas topped with sizzling pepperoni cups, and crunchy-crusted Detroit-style pies. Expense-account diners can still get a taste of that Buckhead swank at Atlas, in the St. Regis Atlanta hotel. The chef, Christopher Grossman, has a French Laundry pedigree and the quiet, luxe dining room is hung with masterworks, many of them from the art collection of Joe Lewis, the billionaire behind the Tavistock Group, a private investment company that owns the hotel. Next door is Umi, whose modern take on Japanese food would be at home in New York or Los Angeles.Many visitors will be on the hunt for the kind of Southern food best eaten with your hands. Barbecue is not hard to find here, but Bryan Furman of B’s Cracklin’ Barbecue is the only pit master turning out whole-hog barbecue from heirloom-breed hogs. The Busy Bee Café, a half-mile from the stadium, has been around since the 1940s, and remains a reliable practitioner of the Southern staple known as the meat and three. Go for the oxtails or the fried chicken, and take whichever vegetable sides dishes the server recommends. The new Southern food movement has been nurtured for 10 years at Miller Union, which serves hyper-seasonal dishes alongside the most interesting wine list in town. Or head to Decatur, a small city that abuts Atlanta proper, and try Mr. Gillespie’s Revival, which serves the kind of food your Southern grandmother might make if she shopped only at the farmers’ market.One last piece of advice: Don’t sleep on the wings.“Wings have become a real part of Atlanta culture,” said Deborah VanTrece, the chef and owner of Twisted Soul Cookhouse & Pours. Ms. VanTrece, who will set up a grits bar and make deviled eggs for 3,000 as part of an N.F.L.-sponsored game-day tailgate party, is a former American Airlines flight attendant who used to eat chicken wings that were delivered to the cockpit when flights took the crew to Buffalo.“We thought that was everything, but now wings in Atlanta have taken on a life of their own,” she said. Her daughter, who is 26, has long debates with her friends over which of the dozens of places to get wings is the best.Wings are now so important to the city that the classic Atlanta beer-and-wing spot, J. R. Crickets, was invited to sell them in the State Farm Arena, the home of the Atlanta Hawks, which recently had a $200 million renovation. (Mr. Furman sells his barbecue there, too.)Insiders order lemon pepper wet, a style of wings that got a star turn on the FX series “Atlanta.”“Atlanta is an easy city to underestimate,” Ms. VanTrece said. “Sometimes I think it’s because the South in general gets a bad rap, but compared to 20 years ago, it’s night and day. You just have to make a little effort.”Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misstated some ingredients in the fried chicken at the original Watershed restaurant. The chicken was fried in lard and sweet butter, not peanut oil.Kim Severson is a Southern-based correspondent who covers the nation's food culture and contributes to NYT Cooking. She has written four books and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment.  @kimseverson • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySuper Bowl LIIIFrom the Colts toppling the Texans to the pass interference noncall heard ’round the world, the lead-up to this year’s Super Bowl had no shortage of drama.By Benjamin HoffmanIllustrations by Chris MorrisThis will be a week of hearing about Sean McVay and Tom Brady and Sean McVay and Bill Belichick and, if there’s time, Sean McVay. But before we get to all of that, we should take a look at how we ended up with the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots facing off in Super Bowl LIII. There were twists and turns during the playoffs. There were mistakes, there were penalties, there were upsets, and there was a whole lot of fun.After three years of injury, disappointment and frustration, it would have been easy to give up on Colts quarterback Andrew Luck. At 29 — and finally healthy — he marched his plucky young team into Houston and crushed the A.F.C. South champions. Luck made it look easy, and in sharp contrast to the last few years, he made it look fun.The only thing standing in the way of Dak Prescott’s first playoff win was, well, several defenders. The nuance and artistry of the 2019 season were briefly abandoned as the 235-pound Prescott morphed from quarterback to bulldozer, fighting his way through a crowd on a third-and-14 play late in the game to set up the Cowboys’ victory-sealing touchdown.Every superhero has a weakness, and the Baltimore rookie Lamar Jackson, even as he redefined how often a quarterback can run, had shown one: ball security. The Chargers, with fresh memories of a regular-season loss to the Ravens, crafted a defensive scheme around running down Jackson and knocking the ball loose, and, much to the Ravens’ chagrin, it worked to perfection.Five seconds aren’t a lot of time, but on Cody Parkey’s attempt at a 43-yard game-winning field goal, five seconds were enough for Philadelphia’s Treyvon Hester to get a hand on the ball; for the ball to ricochet off the left upright; for the ball to then bounce off the crossbar; and for Chicago’s hopes of a deep playoff run led by its championship-caliber defense to fade into nothing.Everyone said the Chiefs were all offense and no defense. Try explaining that to Andrew Luck, who had Kansas City defenders in his face for the entire 20 minutes 11 seconds he managed to keep his offense on the field in this divisional-round game. Luck was sacked three times and hit six more, and he also lost a fumble, spending the day mostly as a chilly spectator to the Patrick Mahomes Show.C.J. Anderson had stints with Carolina, Oakland and Los Angeles this season, but the Rams’ backup running back added a fourth bench to his collection when he punctuated one of his many long runs by taking a seat on the sideline with his Dallas counterparts. He and Todd Gurley beat Dallas at its own game, running the Cowboys into submission.Chargers quarterback Philip Rivers has done most everything a player can do on a football field. He has thrown 374 touchdown passes and won 118 regular-season games. He has survived injuries, he has adapted to changes in the game, and he most likely has earned a bust in Canton. But he has never beaten Tom Brady, and at this point it seems that he never will.If Alshon Jeffery had caught the ball, the Eagles could have won the game. If he had knocked it down, they would have had a chance. Unfortunately for the Eagles, and their fans’ belief that quarterback Nick Foles can always find a way, the ball sailed through Jeffery’s hands and into the waiting grasp of the Saints’ Marshon Lattimore.It is a noncall that will live in infamy. Drew Brees threw a pass toward Tommylee Lewis, and if Lewis caught it, New Orleans could milk the clock and kick a game-winning field goal. Out of desperation, Nickell Robey-Coleman, a defensive back for the Rams, threw himself at Lewis, arriving far too early and knocking the Saints receiver out of the ball’s path. It was fairly obvious in real time that it was a penalty, and painfully so on myriad replays. But the officials somehow missed it, and in a sport routinely consumed by replays, pass interference remains (for now) one of the few decisions that cannot be reviewed. The Saints officially lost in overtime, but they had the win stolen from them in regulation.Patrick Mahomes found his footing in the second half, turning a 14-0 deficit at halftime into a 31-31 tie at the end of regulation. He made impossible passes, stepped out of sacks and showed every bit of the talent that made him the talk of the N.F.L. all season. But the league’s overtime rules can be cruel, and Kansas City’s fate was essentially decided by the flip of a coin. The Patriots won the right to receive the ball, and Tom Brady quietly marched his team down the field for a winning touchdown. Mahomes, the player who can seemingly do anything he wants on the field, was left on the sideline in a jacket, witnessing his team’s defeat.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the Patriots' winning touchdown against Kansas City. It came on a running play, not a pass.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirRon Miller, who rose through the ranks of his father-in-law’s entertainment company, Walt Disney Productions, but whose time as chief executive was tumultuous and ended with his ouster, died on Saturday at his home in Napa, Calif. He was 85.The Walt Disney Family Museum in San Francisco, where he had been board president, said Mr. Miller died of congestive heart failure.When Mr. Miller became president and chief operating officer of Walt Disney Productions (now the Walt Disney Company) in 1980, his overriding mission was to reinvigorate its film division, where he had spent most of his career as a producer and executive.Live-action movies like “Herbie Goes Bananas” and “The Last Flight of Noah’s Ark” were not generating great business, and the studio’s new animated films were not as memorable as its classics like “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” and “Pinocchio.”“We’ve got trouble,” Mr. Miller told The Los Angeles Times a few months after his appointment. “And we’re doing something about it.”Over four years — as president and, for 18 months, chief executive — he oversaw the creation of Disney Channel, the company’s cable network. He established Touchstone Pictures as a vehicle to release films that were targeted at adults, scoring a quick hit with “Splash” (1984), a romantic comedy starring Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah.He also acquired a real estate company that helped Disney develop land near its Disney World complex in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., and brought the company closer to an agreement to open a Disney theme park in France. (It would open outside Paris in 1992.)But it was not enough. By May 1984, Mr. Miller was at the center of a corporate crisis.First, Disney agreed to fend off a hostile takeover attempt by the corporate raider Saul Steinberg with an extremely expensive buyback of Mr. Steinberg’s stake in the company. That led more than 20 disgruntled shareholders to sue the company for wasting corporate assets. Mr. Miller defended the board’s payment to Mr. Steinberg as a way to send him away and keep the company intact.Then, during the summer, an activist shareholder, Irwin Jacobs, who appeared poised to launch a takeover of his own, helped force Disney to drop its proposed acquisition of Gibson Greetings, the third-ranked company in the greeting card business.Even as the restive board was evaluating Mr. Miller’s performance in late August, he was trumpeting the synergy he envisioned for its costliest animated film ever, “The Black Cauldron,” marketing it as a theatrical release, a videocassette, a featured Disney Channel movie and a theme-park ride. When the film was released the next year, it flopped.Mr. Miller did not have much more time to contemplate Disney’s future. In early September, the company’s board asked him to resign.Before the board members voted, he looked at them and angrily asked: “Don’t you have something to say to me? Aren’t you men?”According to an account in “DisneyWar” (2005), by James B. Stewart, now a New York Times business columnist, Mr. Miller added: “I’ve given my life to this company. I’ve never worked anywhere else. I think I’ve taken great strides in leading it as far as it has come. I feel like this is a betrayal.”He was replaced as chief executive by Michael D. Eisner, whom Mr. Miller had earlier tried to recruit to Disney.“For my entire career, I have had great respect and fondness for Ron,” Mr. Eisner wrote on Twitter on Sunday. Mr. Eisner stepped down in 2005.Ronald William Miller was born on April 17, 1933, in Los Angeles. His mother, Stella (Bennett) Miller, worked for a candy maker; his father, John, was a tire builder at Goodyear Tire and Rubber.Ron played baseball and football in high school and received a scholarship to play football at the University of Southern California, where he was a receiver for three years. He did not graduate.While at U.S.C. he met Diane Disney, Walt’s older daughter, on a blind date. They married in 1954, around the time construction was starting on Disneyland, in Anaheim, Calif.; Mr. Miller’s first job for Mr. Disney was chauffeuring architectural plans between Disney offices in Burbank and the construction site. After serving in the Army, he played for the Los Angeles Rams in the 1956 football season, catching 11 passes for 129 yards.Mr. Disney watched Mr. Miller play two games that season but was concerned that his son-in-law might be grievously hurt — he saw him knocked unconscious on one play — and asked him to come work for him.“You know, I don’t want to be the father to your children,” Mr. Disney said, as Mr. Miller recalled in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1984. “You’re going to die out there.”Mr. Miller’s first job was with the crew of the film “Old Yeller” (1957). He went on to spend more than 20 years as a producer or executive producer of Disney movies like “That Darn Cat!” (1965), “Escape to Witch Mountain” (1975), “The Shaggy D.A.” (1976) and “Freaky Friday” (1977).Following his ouster, he and his wife moved to Northern California, where he ran Silverado Vineyards and where she conceived and opened the Disney Family Museum. She died in 2013.Mr. Miller’s survivors include his daughters, Joanna Miller, Tamara Diane Miller and Jennifer Goff; his sons, Christopher, Walter, Ronald and Patrick Miller; 13 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.In an interview last year with the San Francisco magazine The Nob Hill Gazette, Mr. Miller described what it was like working for Mr. Disney, who died in 1966.“I had always been shy,” he said, “and when I first started becoming involved in creative meetings, I laid back. I had good thoughts, but I let somebody else eventually come up with the idea.“But Walt wasn’t afraid to throw out any idea,” he continued. “He threw out everything. I realized you can’t prove to others you’ve got a certain talent unless you let them know you’ve got a talent.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe college football national championship game on Monday night matches two undefeated teams, Alabama and Clemson, both 14-0. It may seem hard to separate two teams that have swept all before them. But there are ways, and in the end, they point to one clear favorite in the game.[Alabama vs. Clemson: Follow our live coverage from the national championship game]Alabama and Clemson turned aside quite a few solid teams. Clemson had a slight edge, meeting 10 bowl teams to Alabama’s nine. But it isn’t difficult to make a bowl game these days. Using more exclusive criteria, Alabama clearly played a tougher schedule. It faced six teams in the final College Football Playoff top 25; Clemson faced three.Computer evaluations of schedules agree: Jeff Sagarin’s, for example, ranks Alabama’s schedule as the 28th toughest in the country and Clemson’s 45th.Both teams dealt out some whippings this season: Clemson won games by 61 and 60 points, Alabama by 55 and 50. Their average margins of victory were quite close, both about 31.5 points per game.But whether a team wins by 50 or 60 proves less about its inherent quality and more about its style of play, its use of substitutes and its thirst for the jugular. The closer games are more revealing.Each team had two games that it won by fewer than 20 points. Alabama beat Georgia in the Southeastern Conference championship game by 7. It beat Oklahoma in the national semifinals by 11. Both of those teams are in the top five in the College Football Playoff rankings.Clemson’s close games were less impressive. It beat Texas A&M by 2 and Syracuse, at home, by 4. Those teams are ranked 19th and 20th in the playoff rankings.Yes, two. Both teams hammered Louisville — Clemson by 61 at home and Alabama by 37 at a neutral site. But their more challenging common matchup was Texas A&M. With the caveat that Alabama was at home and Clemson was on the road, the wins were drastically different: Alabama won by 22 and Clemson by 2.Does a deeper plunge into statistics turn up some good signs for Clemson?Alabama was significantly more successful in the passing game. It averaged 11.3 yards per pass and gave up only 5.9. Clemson’s figures were 8.1 and 6.3. The gap in their differentials is huge: +5.4 for Alabama and +1.8 for Clemson.Clemson will have to make up this deficit with the running game: The Tigers outperformed Alabama offensively on the ground, 6.8 yards per carry to 5.3, and defensively, 2.4 to 3.4. Travis Etienne had more than 1,500 yards rushing for Clemson.Rushing is still a big part of the college game, but its influence wanes a little more every year, especially in closer games. Clemson will not want to fall behind Alabama and have to turn to the pass.On the other hand, one of Clemson’s biggest rushing efforts came in its close game against Syracuse: Etienne had a career-best 203 yards.At first glance, Clemson might have seemed to have the better semifinal, beating No. 3 Notre Dame by 27, while Alabama topped No. 4 Oklahoma by 11.In fact, despite the rankings, Oklahoma was a more formidable opponent than Notre Dame. Looking at the Irish’s undefeated season under the same microscope we are applying to Alabama and Clemson does not yield an impressive picture. Notre Dame played three top-25 teams and only one in the top 10. It had six games decided by 10 or fewer points, including home games against Vanderbilt and (oof) Ball State.(Central Florida, unbeaten until the Fiesta Bowl, also comes up short by these metrics: no top-25 teams on the schedule and a mere 1-point win over Memphis.)Few would argue that the SEC is not the best conference in the country. Sagarin rates the SEC West, which includes Alabama, first and the SEC East second. The divisions of the Atlantic Coast Conference rank seventh and eighth, behind both divisions of the Big Ten, the Big 12 and the Pac-12 North.The second-best team in the A.C.C., Syracuse, is ranked 28th by Sagarin. That’s behind nine SEC teams.There are plenty of people making computer rankings for college football, using a slew of methodologies. Kenneth Massey tracks 110 of them, and their choice is clear: Alabama is favored in 82 of them, and Clemson in 27. (One, mysteriously, goes for Notre Dame.)And the bookmakers agree. Alabama is favored by 5 to 6 points.Two perfect teams. But one is just a little more perfect.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. All I want to do this week is follow Tejal Rao’s new recipe for mall-style barbecue chicken pizza (above), a dish she wrote about movingly in The Times the other day.“Later, my brother and I would learn that we weren’t supposed to like mall food,” Tejal wrote in her most recent “Eat” column. “Certainly not mall pizza. But when we still had identification cards with the word ‘alien’ on them, we found that mall pizza helped us feel at home, assured us there was space for us here.”And, of course, the version of the dish Tejal makes now doesn’t just recreate the flavors of those California Pizza Kitchen slices she ate as a kid. It greatly improves on them. So read her words and get to it! Make the dough this evening, and you’ll be eating fine by Tuesday night.For dinner today, though: chicken piccata! Or maybe Provençal greens soup. I wouldn’t say no to twice-baked potatoes, either, the dough for the pizza proofing in the fridge and everyone crowded around the screen watching Clemson play Alabama for the college football national championship. (Roll Tide!)More ambitiously, if for instance football is not your game and you’d prefer to start the week working well and happily in the kitchen as Rudolf Serkin plays Beethoven over the Bluetooth, you could try out David Tanis’s new recipe, for mushroom and leek cottage pie. Or you could assemble Melissa Clark’s new recipe for a farro bowl with broccoli and lemon dressing.Later this week, whatever you get up to tonight, maybe you’ll make garlicky chicken with lemon-anchovy sauce. Or Yotam Ottolenghi’s shrimp Bolognese. Salmon with a compound butter of lime and herbs? Miso chicken? I do hope that someday soon you’ll make someone Alison Roman’s ginger-molasses cookies. They are sublime.There are thousands and thousands more recipes sitting prettily in wait for you on NYT Cooking. (You will, however, need a subscription to access them.) You can find further inspiration on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. And even if you’re not a subscriber, you can write us at cookingcare@nytimes.com for help with your cooking or with our site and apps.Now, it’s a far cry from Tempranillo and lobster knuckles, I know, but the third season of “True Detective” comes online on Jan. 13. Here’s the trailer, starring Mahershala Ali and Stephen Dorff.In case you missed it, Amanda Hess on whether cats are getting better at acting is a chef-finger-kiss example of how great a critic she is.After a long discussion with a pal about the merits of Charles Willeford’s dark and excellent novel “Cockfighter,” first released as a paperback in 1962 and revised a decade later for hardcover, I went to look up The Times’s original review, published in 1972. Classic shade.Finally, last week the historian Michael Beschloss posted a photograph I hadn’t seen before, of Nancy Pelosi with John F. Kennedy. How about that? See you on Wednesday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the individual photographed with Nancy Pelosi. It is John F. Kennedy, not John F. Kennedy Jr.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerThe Oakland Athletics were overjoyed to choose Kyler Murray with the ninth pick in the baseball draft last June.“We just don’t see athletes like this on the baseball field very often,” their scouting director, Eric Kubota, said then, praising Murray’s instincts despite his relative lack of baseball experience. “He’s just a tremendous athlete, which can translate to the baseball field in a lot of ways. He has a chance to really be dominant on both the offensive end and from a defensive standpoint.”Kubota said the risk of Murray’s playing quarterback at the University of Oklahoma was worth taking.“Frankly, we’re kind of excited to be an Oklahoma fan for 12 games,” he said.Everybody knows what happened next. Those 12 regular-season games led to the conference title game and the Orange Bowl, and by the end, Murray had more than 5,000 all-purpose yards, 54 overall touchdowns, a Heisman Trophy — and a new career path.Murray announced via Twitter on Monday that he was “firmly and fully committing my life and time to becoming an N.F.L. quarterback.” His statement made no mention of baseball, the A’s, or the $4.6 million deal he reached with them last June, with the promise to play only baseball after the 2018 college football season.The A’s were the first team to hold formal workouts for pitchers and catchers on Monday — they started earlier than other teams, to prepare for a season-opening series in Japan with the Seattle Mariners on March 20 and 21 — and Murray will not be joining them. He will return $1.29 million of his $1.5 million signing bonus, according to ESPN, and will not collect the remaining $3.16 million that he was due to be paid next month.He had been assigned a locker in the clubhouse, and on Monday morning, Oakland officials had expressed hope that Murray would soon slip into his No. 73 jersey.Bob Melvin, the A’s manager, said he was “cautiously optimistic” that Murray would choose baseball, according to the San Francisco Chronicle. Yet, realistically, those hopes had been dimming since Murray declared for the N.F.L. draft on Jan. 14. The A’s retain his rights should Murray ever reconsider, but they will get no compensation pick for his defection. They gambled and lost — but baseball lost even bigger.Murray teased the possibility of playing both sports in a photo he posted to Twitter in November, re-enacting a ubiquitous Bo Jackson photo from the 1980s by posing shirtless with football pads on his shoulders and a baseball bat behind his back.But Jackson, of course, did not play quarterback, an all-consuming position that leaves no room for distraction. To maximize his appeal to teams — and his potential for success — Murray chose football exclusively, which most likely will bring him more money, at least at first, and definitely offers a quicker path to glory.The sports are fundamentally different in their development processes, of course. Almost every baseball player logs years in the minors, riding buses to remote outposts for a punishing daily test that is at least as much mental as physical. A first-round N.F.L. quarterback is typically hailed as the instant savior of his franchise.Murray’s predecessor as Heisman Trophy winner and Oklahoma quarterback, Baker Mayfield, needed one month to establish himself as the starter for the Cleveland Browns. He sat the first two weeks, came off the bench in Week 3 and was starting for good by Sept. 30. What’s more appealing to a 21-year-old athlete: the Mayfield plan, or a summer trying to hit sliders for an A’s affiliate in Beloit, Wis., or Stockton, Calif.?Murray’s uncle, Calvin Murray, offers an example of the uncertainties of life as a baseball prospect. The San Francisco Giants chose Calvin Murray with the seventh overall pick in the 1992 draft. He played more than 1,600 professional games, but fewer than 300 in the majors. The player taken one pick before Murray did just a bit better. His name was Derek Jeter.We’ll probably never know what Kyler Murray could have been as a baseball player. He could always try the sport again if football fizzles, as Tim Tebow is doing with the Mets. But baseball, as an institution, does not give itself the best chance to attract an athlete like Murray, whose bonus potential was limited by the strict draft-slotting system instituted in 2012.The draft system has always incentivized losing, to some extent — in 2009 and 2010, the Washington Nationals plotted a new course by taking Stephen Strasburg and Bryce Harper first over all in consecutive drafts. But by awarding a fixed amount of bonus money to teams — with the worst team getting by far the largest allowance — the new rules have greatly encouraged protracted rebuilding.The Houston Astros understood this better than most, and became a perennial power by using the system to their advantage. They have spawned so many imitators that a record eight teams tallied 95 losses last season.The players’ union has been dismayed by this trend, which has lessened demand — and therefore salaries — for veteran free agents. Murray’s case shows another regrettable consequence. Perhaps if the A’s had been able to offer more money to Murray last June, they could have kept him off the football field entirely.Instead, their $4.6 million bought only a half-measure, allowing Murray one final fling with an old flame. As it turns out, he fell truly, madly, deeply back in love. The A’s get their ring back, but baseball is left at the altar.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill Pennington and Ken BelsonThe N.F.L.’s 32 owners made an unexpected announcement after meeting a few weeks ago: The league was strengthening rules that obligate teams to consider minority candidates when hiring coaches and executives in their front offices.At the time, the league said it was just trying to beef up existing regulations, not reacting to criticism that teams had been skirting the rules for years.“Our focus was simply: How do we make the Rooney Rule better?” Robert Gulliver, the league’s chief human resources officer, said, referring to the rule adopted in 2003 and named for Dan Rooney, the owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers at the time who pushed for the regulations.Now, the league’s stated commitment to the rule will be put to the test.On Monday, the number of African-American coaches fired in 2018 soared to five, leaving only two black coaches in a league where at least 70 percent of the players are African-American.Race is already a much-discussed topic in relation to the league. Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who in 2016 began kneeling during the national anthem to protest racism and police brutality toward people of color, has not played in the league for the last two seasons. His protests amplified an already polarizing debate across the country, and he has filed a grievance accusing the N.F.L. of colluding to keep him off the field.Coaches losing their jobs at the conclusion of the regular season is routine and expected, as they fall victim to the merciless pressure from owners and fans to succeed year after year. In addition to the five black coaches fired, three white coaches were let go this season, in Green Bay, Tampa Bay and Miami. But with the N.F.L. under pressure to increase the percentage of minority coaches and executives, the makeup of the latest class of jettisoned coaches was especially startling.Four black coaches were fired Sunday or Monday, including the Jets’ Todd Bowles, who was let go shortly after his team’s final loss Sunday. The Jets had a 14-34 record in the last three seasons under Bowles.Marvin Lewis, who had been at the helm of the Cincinnati Bengals since 2003, was fired Monday. Though he had resurrected the moribund Bengals and took them to the playoffs multiple times, he never won a playoff game and this season was Cincinnati’s third consecutive one with a losing record.Also fired Monday was Denver Broncos Coach Vance Joseph, who had presided over the first back-to-back losing seasons for the Broncos since the early 1970s. In Arizona, Steve Wilks had been the Cardinals’ coach for just one season when he was fired Monday after his team compiled a league-worst record of 3-13.In October, another African-American coach, Hue Jackson, was fired after his teams were 3-36-1 in roughly two and a half seasons.The two black head coaches still in the N.F.L. are Anthony Lynn of the Los Angeles Chargers (12-4), who are headed to a wild-card playoff game Sunday against the Baltimore Ravens, and Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers (9-6-1).Carolina Panthers Coach Ron Rivera, who is Latino, is the only other minority head coach.With eight coaching vacancies, it is possible that some of the recently dismissed coaches will be leading candidates for those openings; their experience and certain attributes may be a better fit with other teams. Jackson, for example, was on Lewis’s coaching staff in Cincinnati. And there are other minority candidates, like the Kansas City offensive coordinator Eric Bieniemy and Stanford Coach David Shaw, whose names have popped up in coaching discussions.But the next several weeks will unquestionably heighten the scrutiny on the N.F.L.’s hiring practices and how reliably, or willingly, the Rooney Rule will be employed.Gulliver would not admit something that many onlookers and people around the N.F.L. have long suspected: that teams have been doing only the bare minimum to comply with, or sidestepping, the Rooney Rule. After all, if the rule was working as intended, and the percentage of minority coaches and executives was growing steadily, why would the rule need to be strengthened?Under the new regulations enacted a few weeks ago, when teams are looking to fill positions, they must interview at least one minority candidate from a list kept by the league’s Career Development Advisory Panel, or a minority candidate not currently working with a team. Teams also must keep detailed records of who they interview, which is perhaps a response to criticism from minority candidates who say they are routinely called, but not formally interviewed, by teams trying to do the least possible to fulfill their obligations.After it was first established, the Rooney Rule appeared to be having an impact. By 2011, eight N.F.L. teams had coaches of color, the most to that point, or since.Yet, at the same time, hiring minority front office executives did not keep pace. And recently, one of the few black general managers in the league, Reggie MacKenzie, who was named the N.F.L. executive of the year in 2016, was forced out as the Oakland Raiders chief football executive. Ozzie Newsome, another African-American general manager, is expected to retire from his post with the Ravens at the end of this season.The N.F.L. has likewise been challenged in its efforts to expand opportunities for black assistant coaches, a job that is the natural springboard to a head coaching position. Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, noted in a 2017 report that the percentage of assistant coaches of color had declined slightly to 31.4 percent. The number of African-American offensive or defensive coordinators had dropped from 14 to 13, Lapchick said.Since assistant coaches typically get swept out the door along with a fired head coach, the number of vacant N.F.L. coaching jobs this week is likely several dozen, even if the eight unoccupied head coach positions garner all the attention.That is a lot of interviewing about to take place in the N.F.L. not long after 32 owners stood behind new, reinforced rules designed to increase the number minorities seriously considered for just such hires.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Virginia Lozano(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The U.S. transportation secretary called for an inquiry into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Boeing 737 Max 8.Elaine Chao asked her agency’s internal watchdog to audit the approval process, which has been under scrutiny since the crash last week of an Ethiopian Airlines jet — the second deadly crash involving the aircraft in less than five months.One concern is the role that Boeing employees played. Since 2005, the agency has allowed manufacturers to choose their own employees to act on behalf of the F.A.A. to help certify new aircraft.Also today, the White House nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to become the permanent head of the F.A.A.Separately, Boeing is so revered in Ethiopia that planes are often referred to as “Boeings.” Now, the long love affair between a country and its airplanes is being put to the test._____2. One was a dairy farmer, another aspired to be a pilot. There was a New Zealand Football player, and a 3-year-old described as “full of energy, love and happiness.”The 50 people killed in a terrorist attack at two New Zealand mosques last week extended across generations and nationalities. Here are some of their stories. Above, an Australian imam leading a prayer near one of the mosques.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is expected to return to Christchurch as victims’ families prepare for funeral services there. In an impassioned speech to Parliament, she said she would do everything she could to deny the gunman attention, and instead focus on the victims.“He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” she said. “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”_____3. Washington has been pushing Iraq to confront and sideline Iran, increasing tensions not just with Baghdad but also within the Trump administration.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is visiting the Middle East this week to advance the effort. Under his proposed plans, the State Department would designate Iran’s military Islamic Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terrorist organization — a first for a unit of another government’s military. Above, Iraqi Shiite militia forces, which often have ties to Iran, during a graduation ceremony last week.American officials said that the plan would put U.S. troops and intelligence officers at risk of similar actions from foreign governments._____4. Extreme weather has devastated Southern Africa and parts of the U.S.In Mozambique and nearby countries, a deadly cyclone nearly obliterated the worst-affected areas. Cyclone Idai has affected more than 1.5 million people, with a death toll now in the dozens but feared far higher.A U.N. official said it could be one of the worst weather-related disasters ever in the Southern Hemisphere. Above, residents searching for bodies in Chimanimani, Zimbabwe.And in the U.S., the record floods that pummeled the Midwest are inflicting a devastating toll on farmers and ranchers at a moment when they can least afford it. We also have a map showing how quickly the region flooded._____5. West Virginia sued a retired top bishop and the state’s only Roman Catholic diocese, saying that they “knowingly employed pedophiles.”In an unusual approach, the civil suit claimed the diocese and the bishop violated the state’s Consumer Credit and Protection Act. The suit said they “failed to conduct adequate background checks” and disclose to parents “the inherent danger” of sending their children to the church’s schools and camps.The bishop, Michael Bransfield, above, was recently restricted from ministry following allegations he had sexually harassed adults.Separately, Pope Francis rejected the resignation of a French cardinal who was convicted of covering up sexual abuse._____6. Pacific Gas & Electric, California’s biggest utility, has repeatedly caused deadly wildfires, yet often put profits ahead of safety, a Times investigation shows.Five of the 10 most destructive fires in the state since 2015 have been linked to the company’s electrical network. Regulators found that in many fires, the utility violated state law or could have done more to make its equipment safer. Above, the Camp Fire in Magalia, Calif., in November.“They have simply been caught red-handed over and over again, lying, manipulating or misleading the public,” Gov. Gavin Newsom said in an interview. “They cannot be trusted.”In a statement, PG&E executives acknowledged mistakes and said they were committed to improving safety._____7. Fallout from the “Varsity Blues” college admissions scandal continues.The University of Southern California blocked students who might be associated with the scheme from registering for classes. “Following the review,” university officials posted on Twitter, “we will take the proper action related to their status, up to revoking admission or expulsion.”And a number of other colleges have warned they might punish students connected to the federal fraud case.The scandal is also bringing attention to athletic recruiting. The practice helps build competitive teams, but now some administrators are calling for more scrutiny of the process._____8. Levi’s is having a moment.The maker of denim and Dockers will start publicly trading this week, a milestone for a 165-year-old company that has experienced a resurgence in the past decade. Levi’s anticipates this week’s stock offering will raise more than $100 million, with a company valuation between $5 billion and $6 billion.We took a look at the history of the brand, from the invention of the blue jean in 1873 to Beyoncé’s cutoff shorts at Coachella in 2018.Separately, the ride-hailing company Lyft hopes to be valued at up to $23 billion in its initial public offering._____9. “I try and make it so that if anyone’s offended, I can explain why they shouldn’t be.”For Ricky Gervais, known for his deeply cringe-inducing comedy, the idea of being an outsider has always been important. His new Netflix show, “After Life,” is no exception: He plays a small-town journalist who abandons all social norms after being widowed.The comedian spoke with our Talk columnist about provocation, outrage culture and how “comedy is an intellectual pursuit, not an emotional one.”_____10. Finally, Puerto Rico’s local food movement is finding its footing.For years, the island imported nearly all its food. Then two hurricanes in late 2017 slowed a budding effort to reclaim the island’s agricultural and culinary independence.But now, even with some power shortages and food supply issues, Puerto Rico’s chefs and farmers are rebuilding and forming new connections. Pernil, above, is one of Puerto Rico’s most-loved dishes.Our reporter visited the island and found that a dedication to local food, and the island’s traditions, was back “with a vengeance,” as one chef put it.Have a delectable night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe state’s politicians have rejected the will of the voters and taken coverage from 60,000 Utahns.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.In November, the people of Utah voted to provide health insurance for about 150,000 state residents who lacked it. Last week, Utah’s legislators overruled their own constituents and took away insurance from about 60,000 of those 150,000 people.The legislators claimed they were trying to save money, but that’s not a credible rationale: The federal government would have covered the bulk of the cost. The true reason — which the legislators weren’t willing to admit publicly — was a philosophical objection to government-provided health insurance.Utah’s turnabout is the latest worrisome example of politicians rejecting the will of voters.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The offending politicians have been mostly Republican, as they are in Utah. “You see a rising, disturbing trend here of equivocation, if not worse, in the commitment to democratic norms on the part of a growing number of Republicans,” Larry Diamond, a Stanford University democracy expert, told my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick. “Is this what the Republican Party wants to be? The anti-democracy party?”There has also been one major example of Democratic officials deciding they don’t care what their constituents want: Last year, the city council in the District of Columbia reversed an increase in the minimum wage for tipped workers, even though the ballot initiative approving it had passed with 55 percent of the vote.City Lab’s Kriston Capps and Sarah Holder have put together a list of state legislatures that have overruled their own voters, including in Idaho, Maine and Michigan. In Missouri, some legislators have pushed to subvert a ballot initiative that would reduce gerrymandering. And in Utah, the legislature has also partly overturned a new law on medical marijuana.I find that last example especially helpful in thinking through my own view about this trend. I would vote against marijuana legalization, because I think it promotes drug use that damages health. But if my state voted to legalize marijuana in a referendum, I would still be unhappy if the legislature then reversed the result.A final point: I understand why some political scientists dislike government by ballot initiative. Direct democracy can sometimes create problematic laws. So if a state legislature wanted to reduce the ability of voters to make laws by referendum, I could see arguments in favor of doing so. But that’s very different from undoing the result of a referendum that has already passed.Sit, Zion, sit.The most exciting player in college basketball — Duke’s Zion Williamson — suffered a knee injury on Wednesday night, which raised a fascinating question, as Marc Tracy of The Times points out: Should Williamson sit out the rest of the college season, to avoid risk of further injury before he likely turns pro this summer?“The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple,” Tracy writes. “Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.”Duke is making bundles of money off Williamson and his teammates. So are ESPN, CBS and Nike, among others. But the players themselves get only scraps, until they turn pro.“To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Ramogi Huma, an advocate for players’ rights, told Tracy.I agree. Until college athletics has a fairer economic system, players should err on the side of extreme caution. Some top college football players have already begun skipping year-end bowl games, for this reason. Whatever Williamson does, I suspect we’ll see more athletes make similar decisions in coming years.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)There’s a lot going on with the Super Bowl, even if you’re not into sports. It’s a quintessential — if fraught — American spectacle. There are the ads. This year, as The Guardian reported, the marijuana industry is counting CBS’s mere consideration of an ad advocating for the legalization of medical cannabis a win.There’s the halftime show. Maroon 5, Sunday’s headliner, along with Travis Scott and Big Boi, canceled their pregame news conference, where they almost certainly would have gotten questions about national anthem protests.For the first time, male dance-style cheerleaders will be on the sideline, making history with the Rams. And then, of course, there’s the actual football. On that, I’ll defer to my colleague Ben Shpigel (who certainly knows a lot more than the Super Bowl-predicting giraffe in Nashville — although it did pick the Rams):In their third season since relocating from St. Louis, the Rams will try to deliver Los Angeles its first football championship since 1984. To do so, they must outlast the New England Patriots, who are appearing in their ninth Super Bowl in 18 seasons.The Rams’ ascent to the N.F.L. elite, from 4-12 in 2016 to consecutive N.F.C. West titles, traces back to their decision in January 2017 to hire as coach Sean McVay, then all of 30 years old. Across the last two seasons, the Rams have scored the most points in the league and are tied for the most wins, with 24.McVay has optimized quarterback Jared Goff, a former No. 1 pick, while assembling a strong locker-room culture. With a series of bold personnel moves, General Manager Les Snead has built a formidable core around Goff, defensive tackle Aaron Donald and running back Todd Gurley.This season, the Rams won their first eight games, and 11 of their first 12, before a late slump — consecutive losses in prime-time, at Chicago and to Philadelphia — coerced them into reshaping their offensive identity. The Rams have since leaned on Gurley and C.J. Anderson, released three times since April, to bully teams with a dynamic running attack.Anderson is one of only four Rams with Super Bowl experience. The Patriots have 38, including the 41-year-old quarterback Tom Brady, who is bidding for a record sixth Super Bowl win. His first came against the Rams, in Super Bowl XXXVI, 17 years ago Sunday.“This is the big dance, you know?” Donald, the defensive tackle, said. “We’ve played great football all year, but this is the last one.”(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• “I think Nancy Pelosi is hurting our country very badly by doing what’s she doing and, ultimately, I think I’ve set the table very nicely,” President Trump said in an exclusive interview. He called border security negotiations a “waste of time.” [The New York Times]• Gone in a generation: Here’s a powerful visual story showing how California’s fires are getting more destructive as a result of climate change. [The Washington Post]• Latino voters in California turned out for the midterms at levels normally seen in presidential elections, helping to flip seven House seats. [McClatchy]• The first in a series of storms swept across the Southland, causing evacuations, beach closings and debris flows. Lightning also struck a jet at LAX (no injuries were reported) and the Chevron refinery in El Segundo. [The Los Angeles Times]• My colleague Dana Goldstein wrote about meeting Alex Caputo-Pearl, now the president of the Los Angeles teachers’ union, in 2011. She’s been reporting on education for 13 years now, and times have changed. [The New York Times]• Another way education is changing? For the first time in 15 years, applications to U.C. schools from would-be freshmen dropped — a sign that declining college enrollment nationally could be spreading to the West Coast. [The Los Angeles Times]• Yesterday would have been Jackie Robinson’s 100th birthday. So here are 100 photos from his rich and complex life — including his time as a standout athlete at U.C.L.A. [The New York Times]• Clementine Creevy, the frontwoman of the band Cherry Glazerr, has proudly represented Los Angeles’s do-it-yourself rock scene since she was a teenager. The band’s third album is worth a listen, Jon Pareles writes. [The New York Times]• Yes, the government shutdown caused some lasting damage to national parks. But it’s kind of nice to read about elephant seal pups that had taken over a parking lot at the Point Reyes National Seashore. “What an interesting management challenge for us,” the park superintendent said. [The Press Democrat]• The Oscars are coming up. The Carpetbagger, Kyle Buchanan, writes that at this point, the people running the show seem almost ashamed. They even managed to upset Lin-Manuel Miranda — although the Academy relented on the point of contention, sort of. [The New York Times]I’ll save you the Google: The game, in Atlanta, starts at 3:30 p.m. Pacific time. You can watch it on CBS or stream it for free at CBSSports.com, the app or on CBS All Access.The arguably better game, the Puppy Bowl, starts at 12 p.m. on Animal Planet.If you feel like going out, here’s a list from LAist of places that will have deals or will be showing the game in the L.A. area. Here’s one for San Diego from KGTV. And here’s one for the Bay from Eater.Have a great weekend. (We’ll have a holiday recommendation from Tejal Rao on Monday.)California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byExit InterviewBy Alexis SoloskiJill Valentine is pretty sure the kids have a nickname for her: Fun Killer. For nearly four years, Ms. Valentine has been the head guardian of “School of Rock,” which played its last performance on Sunday at the Winter Garden Theater. Guardians care for child actors during rehearsals and before and after performances, making sure they’re fed, watered and rested. Ms. Valentine distributes children’s pain relievers, she runs science flashcards, she confiscates contraband.She doesn’t have children of her own — “I have two cats and a boyfriend, that’s enough!” she said — but 63 have come into and out of her care since she joined “School of Rock” for pre-Broadway rehearsals in 2015. Thirteen children, age about 8 to 13, star in every performance, with four more waiting backstage. Thirty-six alumni joined them for Sunday’s show-closing jam session.Before the Saturday evening performance, Ms. Valentine met me at the show’s rehearsal space, now mostly denuded and bubble wrapped. She talked about the responsibilities of the job, the hectic schedule and why there are no children showmances. Her feelings about the show’s ending were bittersweet, but not so bittersweet that she hadn’t booked a 5 a.m. Miami-bound flight for Monday. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.What exactly is a guardian?It’s the responsible person for the child actor. We are responsible for their safety, health, well-being from the time that they walk into the stage door until the time they walk out.I will be in two hours before the curtain goes up. Then we pick up the kids about an hour and 15 minutes before curtain. There are 17 of them. It’s a lot. They’ll go upstairs, drop their stuff, do a physical and vocal warm-up in our green room and then we are off to the races — hair calls, costumes, mic check, all that stuff.Once the kids go downstairs for the show, we don’t have any breaks. They’re onstage all the time and we’re backstage. They go upstairs for intermission — quick snack, water break, bathroom break, game of cards. And then right back downstairs again until the end of the show.What’s the popular snack these days?Their tastes are not what you would think of as kid tastes. They like poke bowls. They’re into Maison Kayser. They don’t eat kid food. They’re like very short adults. But if there’s a birthday and we have birthday cake, everyone is in.What do you do to bond with them? If you ask them real questions about what their life is like and then follow up, they know that you care. We spend 40 hours a week together; that’s an incredible amount of time. They really do become like family.How do you reassure the parents?When we start rehearsal, I do a parent orientation. I have an eight-page packet that I send out. Like, so your child’s in a Broadway show, here’s what you need to know, a step-by-step guide. They have my cellphone number. I get texts, I get phone calls, I get emails.What emergencies have you handled?We’ve certainly had bloody noses, we’ve stood offstage with trash cans. We say, if you think you’re going to be sick, please walk off the stage, we will be there with a trash can for you. I have to ask the kids, do you need to stop? Can you finish the show? It has to be the actors’ choice.Do you handle a lot of stage fright?There’s usually a little bit of nervousness for the first or even the second show. We try really hard to encourage parents to maybe hold off on inviting everyone you’ve ever met to see your child perform for like a week.Do you have ways of celebrating when someone leaves the show?We do. We call it graduation. The audience gets to cheer and afterward we do a graduation ceremony, everybody sings “Pomp and Circumstance.” They get a little mortar board, they sign the back of the set, they get a little diploma.Are they sad to leave?Yeah, they are. And sometimes it’s really hard to watch them go. It’s also pretty great. We have a lot of alumni come back. They can come in and go to warm up and sit with the other kids. They’re all coming back tomorrow! So many of them! It’s going to be nuts.[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]So Fun Killer, how do you kill the fun?If we’re having a tough day I’m one who comes in and is like: “What are you, crazy? We’re doing a show. You cannot throw a football backstage. You just can’t.” I’ve definitely taken away a basketball, a skateboard.Do you have a favorite group of kids?I try very hard not to have favorites. Kids know and it doesn’t really suit what we’re trying to teach them, which is professionalism.Have there been any kid showmances?Not really. Our age group tends to be before that kicks in. Mostly boys and girls have cooties. Plus we have no time!What’s the hardest part of the job?I think the hardest thing is to be consistent. It doesn’t matter how tired I am. Or if it’s Sunday night of a five-show weekend and all I want to do is go home. Because when the stuff hits the fan [Ms. Valentine used a more colorful term], I need those kids to turn to me and to trust me.Is it sad to leave the show?A little. It’s my sixth Broadway show. I know what this is. I’m O.K. But in packing up the office, I’m going through paperwork and old schedules, drawings the kids have made. Which is like, Oh, right. Remember that? We’ve done so much! If anything, my overwhelming feeling is not sorrow, but pride.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow far is the Supreme Court willing to open the public square to more overtly religious expression? A pending case may tell us.By Linda GreenhouseContributing Opinion Writer Even before last month’s Supreme Court argument, the smart-money consensus was that those challenging the Latin cross that stands 40 feet tall on public land in Bladensburg, Md., would lose. Without debating that prediction, I want to make an obvious but, so far, underappreciated point: It really matters how the American Humanist Association and the other nonreligious plaintiffs lose.If the justices permit the ultimate symbol of Christianity to remain, towering over other structures at the junction of two major roads, what theory will they use?Will they say that even if such an object would be unconstitutional if erected today, this one should be grandfathered because it was put up by local citizens as a World War I memorial and stood without controversy for most of the ensuing 93 years?Will the justices decide, as one lawyer, Neal Katyal, insisted in defense of the cross, that despite its origin as the centerpiece of Christian theology, a cross designated a war memorial acquires “an independent secular meaning?” (The Supreme Court’s leading precedent requires that in order not to violate the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause, a government display of a religious symbol must have a “secular legislative purpose.”) The federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., applying Supreme Court precedents, found the cross unconstitutional.  If the justices overturn that decision, will they take the opportunity to repudiate precedent and embrace an overtly more religion-friendly approach? If so, what will that approach be?In the courtroom, one proposal came from Michael Carvin, one of the lawyers defending the cross, who argued that all religious symbols should be “presumptively valid except in the rare circumstances where they’ve been misused to proselytize.” The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, an influential group that appears often at the Supreme Court on behalf of religious expression, went a step further in its “friend of the court” brief.  It took the position that only those actions that would have been considered an establishment of religion “at the time of the founding” should be held unconstitutional today, an originalist test that the brief argued would prohibit only direct government control of religious doctrine or compulsion of religious observance.I’ve arranged these options in order of magnitude, from the minimalist to the radical, so that it’s easy to see why it matters how the court decides this case, The American Legion v. American Humanist Association. Even the minimalist option is problematic, because there’s really no such thing as “just this one cross” at a moment of breathtaking convergence between a powerful social movement now battling the country’s secularizing demographic forces and a Supreme Court now populated by committed religious conservatives.The court has upheld the public display of religious symbols before: a Nativity scene in the company of candy canes and reindeer in a city park and  a Ten Commandments on a monolith on the grounds of the Texas State Capitol surrounded by many other historic monuments. It has never upheld a solitary Latin cross, let alone one four stories high. A brief filed by the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty and other Christian and Jewish groups on behalf of those challenging the cross emphasized the profound religious meaning of the Latin cross — “not just an elongated plus sign” but “a symbol that makes no sense apart from the crucifixion, the resurrection, and Christianity’s promise of eternal life.” So while a Supreme Court endorsement of “just” this one cross would be a significant step toward opening the public square to more overtly religious expression, there is ample reason to think the court won’t stop there.A core project of today’s Supreme Court under the leadership of Chief Justice John Roberts is to reorient the First Amendment’s two religion clauses, the one that prohibits religious “establishment” and the other that protects “free exercise.” Accomplishing this requires defining narrowly what counts as an establishment, as a 5-to-4 majority did five years ago in the Town of Greece case,  upholding the practice of Christian prayers delivered at town government meetings on the ground that the prayers were simply speech that no one had to listen to.And in the name of free exercise, the project requires broad carve-outs for religious believers from government regulation in the name of free exercise. This is a complex area where statutory and constitutional law intersect. In the 2014 Hobby Lobby case,  the court allowed a business owner to refuse on religious grounds to cover birth control in his employee health plan in defiance of the Affordable Care Act.That 5-to-4 decision was based on an interpretation of a federal statute, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The court’s most conservative justices — Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh — are currently trolling for a case that would provide a vehicle for reinterpreting the Free Exercise Clause to give the same robust protection for believers as the statute, in the court’s view, currently does. Achieving that goal means overturning a 1990 precedent, Employment Division v. Smith,  which offered a parsimonious interpretation of the Free Exercise Clause and prompted Congress to pass the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in an attempt at a legislative workaround.An opinion all four justices signed in January demonstrated their hunger for a case that could lead to that decision’s overturning. They explained why the court was not hearing an appeal brought by a public high school football coach who was fired for insisting on kneeling and praying on the football field after the superintendent told him to stop. The four justices noted, with evident regret, that the court had not been asked in that case to revisit either the 1990 decision or a 1977 statutory ruling that interpreted the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to place only a minimal burden on employers when confronted with a religiously observant employee seeking some sort of accommodation.In fact, on the court’s current docket, there happens to be a new appeal that asks the justices directly to overturn the 1977 decision, Trans World Airlines v. Hardison. The new case, Patterson v. Walgreen Co.,  is awaiting the court’s action on whether to accept it for argument and decision.Title VII of the Civil Rights Act requires employers to “reasonably accommodate” an employee’s religious practice as long as the employer can do so “without undue hardship” on the conduct of the company’s business. The court’s 1977 decision defined “undue hardship” as any accommodation that imposed more than a “de minimis cost” on the employer, an easy test for employers to meet and a very difficult one for religious employees. The only two dissenters then were the court’s most liberal members, Justices Thurgood Marshall and William Brennan, who argued for a more generous view of the required accommodation. That all the conservative justices were in the majority demonstrates how the polarity on church-state issues has shifted in the intervening decades.The new case was filed by a Seventh-day Adventist whose need not to work on Saturdays was usually accommodated by the pharmacy company. In fact, he had received a promotion, but he was fired after refusing a shift during an emergency that occurred on a Saturday. The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit upheld Walgreen’s position that it offered all the accommodation required.The appetite of the two newest justices, Mr. Kavanaugh and Mr. Gorsuch, for cases that would enlarge the constitutional playing field for religion appears nearly boundless. Along with Justice Alito, they are looking for vehicles for the court to expand the right of churches to receive direct public grants of money. Justice Kavanaugh, joined by the other two, issued a statement this month explaining why the court was not hearing a case challenging New Jersey’s prohibition against historic preservation grants to churches. The specific facts of the case then before the court were not sufficiently clear for the court to accept the church’s appeal, Justice Kavanaugh said. But he then added, gratuitously, that New Jersey’s position amounted to a “pure discrimination against religion,” a clear invitation to other churches in New Jersey or elsewhere to serve up such a case. Two years ago, in an opinion by Chief Justice Roberts, the court held that a Missouri church was constitutionally entitled to compete for a state grant to enhance the safety of its preschool playground. In an unusual footnote, the chief justice wrote that the court’s decision involved only “express discrimination based on religious identity with respect to playground resurfacing” and that the court was not addressing “religious uses of funding or other forms of discrimination.” As an effort to limit the scope of the decision, the footnote was an obvious failure: Only three other justices signed onto it, and Justices Thomas and Gorsuch expressly disavowed it, meaning that the footnote did not speak for a majority of the court. Justice Gorsuch, who had been on the court for a little over a month, in fact took the occasion to write a separate concurring opinion in which he suggested that the court might consider overturning a 2004 decision that upheld a restriction on state scholarships for study for the ministry.In that case, Locke v. Davey,  Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote for a 7-to-2 majority. The Establishment Clause would have permitted a state to offer ministry students the same scholarship eligibility as other students if the state wanted such an expansive scholarship program, the chief justice wrote. But if the state chose to limit its scholarships to those pursuing secular careers, he added, the Free Exercise clause did not entitle a ministry student to demand equal treatment. There must be some “play in the joints” between the two religion clauses, he concluded. It was one of Chief Justice Rehnquist’s last important opinions; he died the following year.Although the Locke v. Davey decision is only 15 years old, it seems to come to us from a different world. What’s now in play is not the joints. It is, rather, the heart and soul of a diverse country that is going in one direction while the Supreme Court — as in other areas, including labor law  and gun rights  — is hurtling in the other, toward a destination fraught with uncertainty and danger.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Linda Greenhouse, the winner of the 1998 Pulitzer Prize, writes on alternate Thursdays about the Supreme Court and the law. She reported on the Supreme Court for The Times from 1978 to 2008, and is the author of several books.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Fausset and Niraj ChokshiLINDEN, Ala. — The editorial in The Democrat-Reporter, the newspaper that has served the small western Alabama town of Linden since 1879, appeared on Page 2 last Thursday, but it read as though it could have been written the year the paper was founded.“Time for the Ku Klux Klan to ride again,” it began.The unsigned opinion piece, railing against “Democrats in the Republican Party and Democrats” and calling for the return of the most infamous white supremacist group in the nation’s history, went largely unnoticed until Monday, when two student journalists shared photographs of it online.By Tuesday it was national news, the subject of numerous reports illustrated with stock photos of hooded Klansmen, and the target of widespread condemnation. Representative Terri A. Sewell, a Democrat whose congressional district includes Linden, called on the editor and publisher of the paper, Goodloe Sutton, to apologize and step down.“For the millions of people of color who have been terrorized by white supremacy, this kind of ‘editorializing’ about lynching is not a joke — it is a threat,” she wrote on Twitter. “These comments are deeply offensive and inappropriate, especially in 2019.”The reception was about the same in Linden, a struggling town of roughly 2,000 people — 59 percent white and 41 percent black — about 90 miles west of Montgomery. But it stung the community in specific ways. Residents said the editorial made their city seem a heinous place, when it is really more like a deeply flawed one.“You can still be taken aback by some of the problems we still have,” said Timothy Thurman, the superintendent of the local public school system. Its student population is almost entirely black, he said; most white families in Linden prefer to home-school their children or send them to a private school founded in 1969 at the height of the state’s integration battles.Yet almost in the same breath, Dr. Thurman, who is black, spoke of friendly relations between the races in town. “Honestly,” he said, “everybody gets along.”The editorial was also seen as further evidence of the inglorious fall of Mr. Sutton, 80, a fixture in the public life of Linden who inherited the paper from his father and was once widely hailed, along with his late wife, for exposing corruption in the local sheriff’s department.In the editorial, which he has acknowledged writing, Mr. Sutton blamed Democrats for the United States’ involvement in both world wars, the Korean War and the Vietnam War, as well as the conflicts in the Middle East. And in an interview with The Montgomery Advertiser about the editorial, he went even further, suggesting that the Klan “go up there and clean out D.C.”“We’ll get the hemp ropes out, loop them over a tall limb and hang all of them,” he told The Advertiser.Efforts to reach Mr. Sutton for comment on Tuesday by telephone or in person were not successful.The mayor of Linden, Charles Moore, received a reporter in his office early Tuesday morning. An angry woman, presumably from out of town, had just called him and asked, sardonically, when the city would be holding its next Klan meeting.Mr. Moore, who is white, said he was disgusted by Mr. Sutton’s article, but not surprised that it had been published: “Oh no, not at all.”The Democrat-Reporter earned a name far beyond Linden in the 1990s, when it ran a series of articles detailing rampant corruption in the Marengo County Sheriff’s Department, including theft and drug peddling. The sheriff at the time was popular, and the paper was flooded with threats and cancellations of ads and subscriptions.Mr. Sutton’s wife, Jean Sutton, was the managing editor in those days. But she died of breast cancer in 2003, and the mayor said that changed something. “He lost his wife, and all the credibility went with her,” he said. “She was a very good investigative reporter, and also a real sweet person.”Mr. Sutton began penning editorials that were racially insensitive and “very hurtful,” Mr. Moore said. An editorial in May 2015 stated that a local mayor had “displayed her African heritage by not enforcing civilized law” and referred repeatedly to black people as “thugs.”And during the national debate over football players kneeling in protest of police brutality, the paper published an editorial titled “Let football boys kneel.”“That’s what black folks were taught to do two hundred years ago, kneel before a white man,” it read. “Is that it? Let them kneel!”Last year, Mr. Moore said, a number of businesses downtown were so incensed by one article that they demanded that the paper remove its boxes from their property.USA Today reported in 2015 that the paper had a circulation of 3,000, but these days it is not easy to find in Linden. There is a box in front of a closed-up building on Main Street, and another in front of the newspaper’s shed-size office on a side street.At a gas station called Langley’s, they were not selling it, and a clerk there said, “I don’t know anybody who does.”Jami Huckabee, 36, a waitress who worked for the paper as a teenager, said The Democrat-Reporter was mired in financial problems even then. Mr. Sutton, she said, “is just a bitter old man” who she thought was calculatedly dropping racist bombs in an effort to attract waning interest: “This is how he sells papers now, because everybody’s boycotted him for various reasons.”The Feb. 14 issue contained eight pages, with unsigned news articles about art grant applications and a Methodist church’s Brunswick stew dinner. The page facing the editorial featured large photos of local African-American parents posing proudly with sons who had won football scholarships.A full page was given over to legal notices, a financial lifeline for many small papers. There were ads for local apartments, a local cleaners, a cafe in nearby Demopolis, and the Omaha Steaks company.A number of residents said that they never saw the paper any more, and had only heard about the editorial after seeing reports on social media. “Most people have dropped their subscriptions,” said Sarah Dailey, the librarian, who said the library does not carry copies either.Myisha Taylor, 25, a library patron, said on Tuesday that she had not heard about the editorial. But Ms. Taylor, who is black, said she was hardly surprised that such sentiments persisted in Alabama. Linden, she said, “is mostly run by people like that — all of that’s still active, it’s just undercover.”Other black residents strongly disagreed. “Living here is good, I cannot lie,” said Aleicia White, 51, a disabled former worker at a wood products company. “The people are friendly, and I live in an all-white neighborhood.”Either way, residents said there had been no big resurgence in pro-Klan sentiment in the area.Kenneth Barrineau, who heads the Heart of Marengo Chamber of Commerce, said he worried about the impact of the international bad press on a town where a job in a paper mill was often the best work to be had, and where no one had figured out how to lure back the children who go off to distant colleges.“I would say this is not a story about Linden, Alabama,” he said. “This is a story about the local newspaper.”At the Democrat-Reporter’s tiny office Tuesday, an African-American woman opened the door after a reporter knocked. She said no one could talk until Thursday, and added that she had no comment about the editorial.Mr. Sutton was easier to find in city court records, which indicated that he had gone to court Aug. 23 to fight a charge of littering and had lost the case. He was fined $432.50.Wendy Lewis, the court clerk, said that a strong wind had caught hold of advertising inserts that were stacked outside the Democrat-Reporter’s offices and had blown them around.“Oh, it was a mess,” she said. “It was all over town.”An earlier version of this article misstated the age of Goodloe Sutton, a longtime editor of The Democrat-Reporter. He is 80, not 70.Richard Fausset reported from Linden, Ala., and Niraj Chokshi from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy John BranchClemson’s freshman quarterback Trevor Lawrence arrived here as a wild card dealt into a familiar championship hand. Alabama, carrying the glow of its array of championship trophies, hoped the 19-year-old Lawrence might be rattled under pressure, from both the Crimson Tide’s pass rushers and the weight of the moment.But Lawrence, statuesque and uncommonly mature, left as a hero with barely a grass stain on his orange-and-white uniform.Using big plays, capitalizing on Alabama turnovers and riding the poise of Lawrence, Clemson beat Alabama, 44-16, in the College Football Playoff championship game at Levi’s Stadium.[How Clemson won: a drive-by-drive recap of the national championship game]It was the fourth year in a row that Alabama and Clemson had met in college football’s four-team playoff, and the third time they faced off in the championship game.Clemson (15-0) has now won two of those three games, adding to the national title it won at the end of the 2016 season. The Tigers, under Coach Dabo Swinney, seem to be the only program able to disrupt Alabama’s dynasty, and have started building their own along the way.Alabama still has five national championships since 2009, but the last three seasons have included two championship-game losses to Clemson.“There’s so many great coaches that are so deserving of a moment like this that never get the chance to experience it,” Swinney said in an on-field interview with ESPN after the game, “and to get to do it once and now to get to do it again — it’s a blessing.”Alabama Coach Nick Saban was gracious in defeat, especially impressed with Lawrence and Clemson’s receivers, but turned his analysis inward.“If you look at the stats of the game, the yards and all that are fairly equal,” he said. “But the score — because of turnovers, not finishing drives in the red zone, not getting off the field on third down, giving up explosive plays — the score doesn’t indicate anything like that.”Lawrence and Clemson were successful on 10 of 15 third downs, gaining 255 yards on those conversions.With so much talent and experience on both squads — much of it destined for the N.F.L. — the rosters were expected to largely cancel each other out. The outcome, not surprisingly, rested largely on the play of the two quarterbacks.Lawrence was outstanding, completing 20 of 32 passes for 347 yards, with three touchdowns and no interceptions.Alabama’s Tua Tagovailoa, the Heisman Trophy runner-up and a postseason hero of yesteryear, had just four interceptions in 321 pass attempts this season entering Monday’s game. But by halftime, he had thrown two picks that proved pivotal.His first, on the team’s third play, was returned for a touchdown by A.J. Terrell. The second started a Clemson touchdown drive that gave the Tigers a double-digit lead that they never relinquished.Clemson held a 31-16 halftime lead, knowing full well that Alabama had overcome those kinds of deficits in past playoff games. But the Crimson Tide could not convert yards into points or force Lawrence into any game-changing mistakes.Alabama put its defensive focus on slowing Clemson’s rushing attack, which often hammered opponents into submission this season while averaging 6.8 yards per rush, highest in the nation.The Alabama defense held Clemson to 27 yards on 10 rushes in the first half. It would have been a winning strategy if Lawrence — and his offensive line — had not played so well. “I’m just proud of how we handled everything,” Lawrence said. “And I’m really thankful for our O-line. Zero sacks tonight.”Facing a third-and-8 early in the third quarter, Lawrence finally was under pressure when he flung the ball toward receiver Justyn Ross — wide open because cornerback Saivion Smith had fallen to the grass with an injury.Ross caught the ball and ran untouched for a 74-yard touchdown, capping a run of 23 unanswered Clemson points that lifted the Tigers to a 37-16 lead. Smith was taken away on a cart as the Clemson sideline hummed in anticipation of victory.Historically, college football is a place of regular-season rivalries, not postseason ones. Teams do not play one another regularly in the postseason — too many schools, too many conferences, too many bowl affiliations. And these times seem an unlikely era for such a dynamic to emerge, now that there are 130 top-level programs in the Football Bowl Subdivision.All that makes it the more remarkable that these two teams keep meeting in championship games, as if they are the Warriors and Cavaliers of the N.B.A.The first, a 45-40 Alabama victory in January 2016, was exhilarating, the teams combining for 40 fourth-quarter points. An unexpected and successful onside kick and a 95-yard kickoff return were the big plays for Alabama’s comeback victory.Clemson and quarterback Deshaun Watson avenged the result a year later, with Watson throwing a 2-yard touchdown to Hunter Renfrow with 1 second left to give the Tigers a 35-31 victory.The teams met in the semifinal game last year, with No. 4 Alabama dominating No. 1 Clemson, 24-6. The Crimson Tide beat Georgia, in overtime, in the championship game. The hero there was Tagovailoa, then a freshman backup quarterback. He came into the game with Alabama trailing 13-0 at the beginning of the second half and threw three touchdowns, including the game-winner in overtime.Alabama arrived this year as a slight favorite, though few expected any sort of romp. Alabama was the first team since Yale in 1900 to beat every team by at least 20 points during the regular season, but Clemson has built itself into a deep shadow of Alabama’s program, following closely behind in college football’s spotlight.This might be the moment that Clemson fully emerged from it.The game opened as if the fast-forward button had gotten stuck. That was a twist from their previous championship meetings, which built slowly and ended with a flurry of points, like the finale of a fireworks display.This time, they combined for three touchdowns in the first four and a half minutes, and four touchdowns in the first 9 minutes. Barely 3 minutes into the second quarter, the teams had combined for 37 points. The entire game felt like a highlight reel.Clemson jumped out first, in the game’s second minute, when Terrell intercepted Tagovailoa’s short pass intended for Jerry Jeudy and returned it 44 yards for a touchdown. It was just the fifth interception of the season for Tagovailoa, and Terrell carried it untouched toward a sea of pleasantly surprised, orange-clad Clemson fans behind the end zone.Tagovailoa made up for his mistake in a hurry. His next pass, on the next drive, found Jeudy beyond the Clemson defense, a 62-yard touchdown connection that elevated the crimson-wearing fans in the opposing end zone.On the next drive, Lawrence threw a perfect arc on a 62-yard gain to Tee Higgins, then Travis Etienne carried around the left end for a 17-yard touchdown run — his first of three on Monday. Clemson had a 14-7 lead with 10:35 left in the first quarter. Anyone daring to turn away, or even blinking too lethargically, risked the possibility of missing the next big play.The pace eventually slowed, even if the scoreboard was just warming up. Alabama needed 10 plays to go 75 yards for the next touchdown. A missed extra point left Clemson ahead, 14-13.Following a Clemson punt, the first of just five in the game, Alabama moved downfield in 11 plays, with a dizzying array of quick passes and misdirection runs. Clemson’s defense stiffened near the goal line, suddenly finding its balance, and held the Crimson Tide to a field goal.It felt like a small victory for Clemson. It was a key to the national championship.The moment of momentum shifted to Clemson’s offense, which marched downfield, ending with Etienne’s 1-yard touchdown run. The Tigers had a 21-16 lead, and when they converted Tagovailoa’s second interception into a touchdown drive, they had a double-digit cushion.There is rarely a time to get comfortable against Alabama. But Clemson will have at least a year. The next championship game is scheduled for Jan. 13, 2020, in New Orleans.John Branch is a sports reporter. He won the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for feature writing for “Snow Fall,” a story about a deadly avalanche in Washington State, and was also a finalist for the prize in 2012.  @JohnBranchNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe speed and power of the Rams’ wrecking-ball lineman show that size isn’t everything in the N.F.L.By Ben ShpigelATLANTA — The Rams selected defensive tackle Aaron Donald with their second first-round pick in 2014, No. 13 over all, which means that 11 other teams, after assembling draft boards and consulting scouts and analyzing a trilogy’s worth of film of his demolishing offensive linemen, decided against taking a player whose dominance has since redefined his position.“I think,” said Mike Waufle, the Rams’ defensive line coach at the time, “people were scared of his size.”Donald is 6-foot-1 and, coming out of the University of Pittsburgh, was listed at 285 pounds. That is enormous in human terms, but smallish for a defensive tackle, whose function in a 3-4 defense is to blot out the sun.Not everyone with the Rams coveted Donald, but Waufle was undeterred. He had long prized speed over size, and from the start, he viewed Donald as an outlier, grading him as the best prospect he had seen since 1998, his first season coaching in the N.F.L. Donald generated so much power that he reminded Waufle of the Russian boxer Ivan Drago in “Rocky IV,” who punched a computerized meter with such force that Drago’s manager remarked, “Whatever he hits, he destroys.”In his first season, Donald was selected as the top defensive rookie. Last season, he was defensive player of the year. After registering 20.5 sacks this season, the most ever by a defensive tackle, Donald will almost certainly repeat.The Rams’ ascent to a Super Bowl berth against the New England Patriots on Sunday from 4-12 buffoonery in 2016 reflects a certain harmonic convergence — the confluence of foresight, audacity and good fortune, with Donald embodying it all.Coach Sean McVay, a brilliant communicator whose football acumen pushed the Rams to the forefront of the league’s offensive frenzy, has already spawned a coaching tree, and the team has traded precious draft picks to acquire volatile personalities who have meshed in a cohesive locker room. But before all that, the Rams had the conviction to draft Donald. In 2014, he was an excellent defender. In 2019, he is the avatar for defensive disruption.With N.F.L. teams eschewing downfield passes for underneath routes, and Patriots quarterback Tom Brady averaging a mere 2.18 seconds per postseason throw in the pocket, according to Pro Football Focus, interior pressure is ever more critical. And no one plows into the backfield faster than Donald, a player New England Coach Bill Belichick called “pretty much unblockable.”“If he keeps this up,” the Hall of Fame defensive tackle John Randle said, “he can change the game almost like a Lawrence Taylor.”Randle transformed the position, too, playing at 6-1 and 285 pounds, but in a different era, when teams prioritized space-choking interior tackles to stop the run and tended to harass quarterbacks from the outside. Of the 54 instances in which a player had at least 16.5 sacks in a season since the statistic was first tracked in 1982, 50 came from defenders who didn’t play tackle, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.Randle never quite reached that total, topping out at 15.5. But contemporaries like La’Roi Glover and Warren Sapp did, and Randle viewed them, and himself, as misfits, fueled by the perception that they weren’t fast enough to play linebacker, big enough to play offensive line or nimble enough to play running back.Across 14 seasons with Minnesota and Seattle, Randle amassed the most sacks by a defensive tackle in N.F.L. history — 137.5 — by destroying quarterbacks and game plans much as Donald does now, just with less time to get to the quarterback. Donald had a league-leading 106 pressures, according to Pro Football Focus. The next closest player, Fletcher Cox of Philadelphia, had 95.“When you get that interior pressure, they can’t run the sweep, the center can’t pull,” Randle said. “When you’re in the inside, you may not get there, but you’re in the quarterback’s face, and he can’t see because the pressure’s there. He sees you, and he’s more conscious of you. You’re right there in front of him.”When watching Donald, Randle notices how his feet, hands and eyes work in concert, with a first step so quick that it can be mistaken for reflex. Donald’s arms allow him to get leverage on taller linemen — plural, considering the double teams he faces — beneath their pads, taking away their strength.“Some guys at that position are top-heavy with skinny little legs, or are big down below but have nothing up top,” Dewayne Brown, who has helped train Donald since 2009 in their native Pittsburgh, said in a telephone interview. “He’s built like a block, totally proportional.”A secret: Donald may be listed at 285 pounds, but, he said Tuesday, he has been playing at 270, maybe 265. (The Rams’ other defensive tackle, Ndamukong Suh, is listed at 6-4 and 307 pounds.) Over texts, Waufle calls Donald a male model and tells him he’s pretty. Donald’s father, Archie, asked Brown to remind his son that he’s not a bodybuilder. In a photo he posted to his Instagram story Monday, a shirtless Donald is shown flexing, muscles bulging, his abdominal muscles clearly defined. Celery has more fat than he does.“He’s got, like, an eight-pack,” Rams defensive tackle Michael Brockers said.In the off-season, Brown helps Donald refine his speed and agility with 45-minute workouts laden with core exercises and resistance training, like the drill he performs wearing lateral resistors on his ankles. As someone drops a tennis ball eight yards away, Donald must sprint to grab it before it bounces a second time. Go on, try it.To increase his strength, Donald works with Dave Andrews, the strength and conditioning coach at Pitt, who called him “a genetic mutant” and “a ball of dynamite.” Andrews challenges him with exercises in which he provides Donald with resistance throughout the entire movement to isolate a particular muscle group.“It’s no different than when they’re in hand-to-hand combat on the field, and they’re manually trying to resist what he’s doing,” Andrews said. “Most likely, it takes two, maybe three guys, to slow Aaron down. You can imagine what it’s like in the weight room. Like, good luck. I walk out in a full sweat.”Donald has long been strong and thick; as an adolescent, he would wake before dawn to lift weights with his father. But Donald was “real chunky,” Brown said, when he first encountered him as a junior at Penn Hills High School.That season, Greg Gattuso, then the defensive line coach at Pitt, attended a Penn Hills game to scout one of Donald’s teammates. He had heard of Donald but had never watched him. Before leaving, Gattuso offered him a scholarship.With each successive season at Pitt, Donald had more tackles for loss. His senior year, nearly half of his 59 tackles — 28.5 — came behind the line of scrimmage. At the N.F.L. scouting combine, Donald ran the 40-yard dash in 4.68 seconds, faster that year than Raiders quarterback Derek Carr (6-2, 214), Patriots linebacker Kyle Van Noy (6-3, 243) and Cowboys defensive end DeMarcus Lawrence (6-3, 251). His 10-yard split, which gauges short-area quickness, was a solid 1.65 seconds.From afar, Waufle yearned. As defensive line coach for the Giants, he replaced interior linemen with speedier ends to overwhelm Brady and unbeaten New England in Super Bowl XLII. He said he studied more game tape of Randle than Randle himself.Waufle wanted a Randle of his own.On draft night, Waufle was working on a project in his office when, around the eighth pick or so, he glanced at the television and noticed Donald was still available. He cycled through scenarios in his head.He thought Detroit, picking 10th, would grab him. He thought the Giants, picking 12th, would, too. When the Rams were on the clock, he sneaked into the draft room, hoping for good news. When he got it, he nearly yelped inside.The next time he saw Donald, told him something he had never said to another player: Don’t listen to anything I say.“We’ll get you lined up, and you just go, man — you just go,” Waufle said, relaying their conversation. “And he did. He tore the league up.”Waufle left the Rams when McVay was hired, after the 2016 season, but his successor, Bill Johnson, marvels daily at Donald.“What makes him different is no different than what makes a racehorse so great,” Johnson said. “They’re just sort of made to be, I guess. I don’t know. If I knew, I’d be cloning it.”Donald’s trajectory might have made teams reassess their evaluations of him. It might have even made them more likely to consider undersized defensive tackles in the future — imitation and flattery, and all that. But there is only one Aaron Donald, and to the dismay of every other team, but most of all New England this week, he plays for the Rams.Ben Shpigel is a sports reporter and has covered the N.F.L. and the New York Jets since 2011. He has also covered the New York Yankees and, before that, the Mets. He previously worked for The Dallas Morning News.  @benshpigel AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byChiefs 31, Colts 13By Ben ShpigelKANSAS CITY, Mo. — The stories passed down about the Kansas City Chiefs’ playoff malfunctions might sound apocryphal, as if embellished over a game of telephone, but they’re not. Really.The fans who jammed Arrowhead Stadium on Saturday can recite detail after grisly detail. So can those who roamed Kansas City’s sideline: Many of them added to the misery last year, two years ago, three years ago, five.One player changed the calculus. His ascension terminated an era of despair. His quarterbacking brilliance inoculated the fan base. In his grand playoff unveiling, Patrick Lavon Mahomes II purged a quarter-century of Arrowhead futility.After every first down, every score, every defensive stop, fans in the upper deck flung snowballs in glee. They kept coming, much like the top-seeded Chiefs, who blitzed their postseason nemesis, the Indianapolis Colts, 31-13, and advanced to host the A.F.C. Championship next Sunday against the Los Angeles Chargers or the New England Patriots.The conference champion receives a trophy named for Lamar Hunt, the founder and original owner of the Chiefs, who have played for the award just once since 1970 (when they won their only Super Bowl title). That was in 1994, the last time, incidentally, that Kansas City won a home playoff game. At the beginning of every season, Hunt’s son Clark, a team co-owner, tells players how important it is to win that trophy.“We’ve now put ourselves in a position to do it,” Hunt said. “I’m probably going to think about it a lot this week.”As he stood in the Chiefs’ locker room Saturday night, Hunt thought a lot, too, about Mahomes, who in his first season as a full-time starter became the only quarterback other than Peyton Manning to throw for 50 touchdowns and 5,000 yards in a regular season.Three other quarterbacks made their playoff debuts last week, and all three lost. Mahomes completed 27 of 41 passes for 278 yards without committing a turnover and guided scoring drives on four of Kansas City’s five first-half possessions. When Darrel Williams plowed into the end zone for the final touchdown, with 2 minutes 26 seconds left, Mahomes peeled away from the crowd and windmilled his fist, aware in that moment of what he — what all of the Chiefs — had accomplished.And so now, after 47 years, this sentence can be written: The Chiefs, finally, have more playoff victories at Arrowhead than the Colts. It’s O.K. to read that again, a third time even.“They don’t know about old luck, or Andrew Luck or bad luck against the Colts,” punter Dustin Colquitt, the team’s longest-tenured player, said of Mahomes and first-year Chiefs like Sammy Watkins (six catches, 62 yards) or Damien Williams (25 rushes, 129 yards). “So why not us?”The Chiefs had lost their last six home playoff games, and 10 of 11 over all, often in unspeakable fashion. Once, they did not allow a touchdown. Last year, they blew an 18-point halftime advantage. The worst defeat — and that distinction, mind you, is debatable — came five years ago, when they led by 28 points in the third quarter and, yes, lost.To the Colts.All of Kansas City’s anguish connected with Indianapolis — four straight playoff losses since 1996 — preceded Mahomes, who seems impervious to it all.“I think we all almost expect it every week now,” Hunt said of Mahomes’s command. “I mentioned earlier in the year that the first couple of games we thought: ‘O.K., is this an outlier? Is this something that’s going to last?’ But he literally has done it every week.”The Chiefs scored on their first possession. And their second. And their third. And, after a brief break, their fifth. The points accumulated like the snow that blanketed the region overnight and deep into Saturday.The slicker the surface, the wackier the conditions, the more comfortable Mahomes, all of 23, seems. About 45 minutes before kickoff, he did not run out of the tunnel so much as he strutted, skipping toward the 35-yard line, where he began warming up, his passes accurate, his footing true.In the game, Mahomes extended plays, sidestepped rushes, flipped passes across his body — connecting with Travis Kelce (seven catches, 108 yards), Tyreek Hill (eight catches, 72 yards), with Damien Williams (five catches, 25 yards).It perplexed the Colts, who could not cover, tackle or feel remotely positive about anything until 5:56 before halftime, when Najee Goode blocked a punt that Zach Pascal recovered in the end zone for a touchdown.Any chance Indianapolis had of drawing closer faded when a diving Mahomes crashed past an end zone pylon from 4 yards out, extending the Chiefs’ lead to 24-7. Then the Colts’ Adam Vinatieri — whose kick in the snow 17 years ago catalyzed the New England dynasty — clanged a 23-yard field-goal attempt off the left upright.Of course, now he misses in the snow, muttered Raiders fans everywhere. Vinatieri later missed an extra point, leaving the Colts 11 points behind, and all hope dissolved.The Chiefs’ defense, suspect all season, sacked Andrew Luck three times and held Marlon Mack, who last week blasted the Houston Texans for a franchise-record 148 rushing yards, to all of 46.“We played checkers,” Colts tight end Eric Ebron said. “They played chess.”Before Luck completed a pass, Kansas City led by 17-0, on touchdown runs by Damien Williams and, on a dazzling reverse, Hill. With misdirection, precision and, at times, brute force, the Chiefs asserted themselves in a way the Colts had not encountered: Not once during a three-month surge from 1-5 to 10-6 did Indianapolis face a top-five offense.The Chiefs are a top-one offense. Mahomes is a top-one quarterback. The chants of “M.V.P.” reverberated loud and long. So many times over the years, Kansas City confronted a quarterback deficit in the playoffs. John Elway and Manning, Tom Brady and Ben Roethlisberger — all foiled the Chiefs.Already they have advanced deeper than any predecessor since Joe Montana helmed the team 25 years ago. They know how fleeting this moment can be, and if they win next Sunday, surpassing the teams of Montana and Trent Green and Alex Smith and all the others, Mahomes will add to his growing legend — to stories that delighted fans will pass down, stories that may seem apocryphal, but are not.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump declared on Friday that he would use emergency powers to fund the construction of a border wall, sidestepping Congress. The announcement met with immediate blowback: Sixteen states are suing, and on late-night TV on Monday, various hosts attacked the president for it.Stephen Colbert and Seth Meyers pointed out that Trump had said on Friday that he “didn’t need to do this,” but was declaring the emergency in order to build the wall “much faster” — a statement that seemed to contradict the very definition of an emergency.“You didn’t need to do this? Then it’s not an emergency! That’s the exact opposite of an emergency. That’s a choice. That’s like saying, ‘I’m having emergency surgery to get butt implants. I didn’t need to do this, but I hate doing squats.” — SETH MEYERS“You don’t say that out loud! [Impersonating Trump] ‘Hello, 911? I would like to call an Uber, but that would take too long. Please, send an ambulance. I want to go to the movies. No, no, no — of course I’m dying. I am dying to see ‘The Lego Movie 2.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTMeyers pointed out that building a wall along a nearly 2,000-mile border didn’t seem like an emergency solution.“Isn’t building a wall kind of a long-term way to approach a supposed ‘emergency’? That’s like trying to save a drowning man by drinking the lake.” — SETH MEYERSBoth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon had some fun with the news that a woman had delivered a baby during a JetBlue flight.“The other day, a woman gave birth to a baby boy on a JetBlue flight. It was stressful, but now JetBlue can finally say they had an early arrival.” — JIMMY FALLON“A woman gave birth aboard a JetBlue flight to Florida this weekend. Said the man next to her: ‘Fine! Take the armrest!’” — SETH MEYERS“Luxury department store Barney’s partnered with a cannabis company to open a high-end boutique in Beverly Hills, where customers can buy accessories such as glass bongs and cannabis-infused candles. You know, for when you want to be chill about how rich you are.” — SETH MEYERS“A woman in England was searching a farm with a metal detector when she found what she thought was a foil-wrapped chocolate coin — only to find out later that it’s a 1,500-year-old solid gold pendant worth a fortune. Yeah, unbelievable: to get that close to finding chocolate only to be disappointed!” — JAMES CORDEN“Happy Presidents’ Day. Yeah, I’ll be honest, this is another American holiday I don’t quite understand. Yeah, you pull a president out of the ground and then if it sees its shadow, there’s six more weeks of democracy? Do I have it right?” — TREVOR NOAHJimmy Fallon persuaded Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry to drop a few wacky phrases into his interviews during the NBA’s All-Star weekend. He really pulled it off. (He also pulled off a mind-boggling alley-oop in the All-Star Game itself. See it all below.)Jonathan Batiste, the “Late Show” bandleader, created greeting cards celebrating Black History Month and Valentine’s Day at the same time. A highlight: the one that says, “My milkshake brings all W.E.B. Du Bois to the yard.”Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts recently announced her plans to seek the Democratic presidential nomination. She’s known as a policy wonk, but she’ll probably have a slightly less heavy-duty conversation when she appears with James Corden on “The Late Late Show” on Tuesday.In this interview with our pop critic, the rapper 21 Savage opens up about his life as an undocumented immigrant, and his detention at the hands of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaFIFA President Gianni Infantino’s plans to reorder world soccer are being stymied by a familiar foe: Europe.Since proposing several major changes to the sport’s calendar last spring, Infantino has spent months traveling the world hosting minisummits with the leaders of FIFA’s 211 member federations. His goal is to win support for a proposal to introduce two new tournaments — an expanded World Cup for clubs and a new league for national teams — that would be underwritten by a $25 billion offer from a group led by the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank.The listening exercise follows repeated failures by Infantino to force the proposals through FIFA’s governing council, but if they are approved they would represent the biggest changes to soccer in a generation, and their adoption — and the multibillion-dollar cash infusion to FIFA — would provide Infantino with a signature success ahead of his bid to secure a second term as FIFA president later this year.Each of the meetings on Infantino’s tour, including the most recent one held in Marrakesh, Morocco, has included about 50 federation leaders from across soccer’s six regional confederations. At the end of each session, the federation representatives are handed electronic tablets and asked to select their preferred options for the new tournaments.Infantino’s problem is that European officials attending the meetings have stubbornly refused to offer any opinions. Instead, they have told Infantino and his team that the feelings of Aleksander Ceferin, the president of the European governing body, UEFA, and his governing council represent their views.Some of the Europeans balked because the list of options for the Club World Cup did not include the option of not holding the tournament, which is often an annoyance for the European champion who attends, at all. On FIFA’s tablets, voters are asked to pick from only three choices: a tournament with 16, 24 or 32 teams.Ceferin, under pressure from clubs and federations in Europe, has clashed repeatedly with Infantino over the proposed changes both to the Club World Cup and to the broader global soccer calendar, with Ceferin most frustrated by new initiatives that could challenge the hegemony of existing club tournaments like UEFA’s Champions League and add to the workload of players.“I cannot accept that some people who are blinded by the pursuit of profit are considering to sell the soul of football tournaments to nebulous private funds,” Ceferin said in a speech last May. “Money does not rule — and the European sports model must be respected. Football is not for sale. I will not let anyone sacrifice its structures on the altar of a highly cynical and ruthless mercantilism.”Infantino first presented details of a plan for an expanded Club World Cup at a FIFA Council meeting in Bogotá, Colombia, last March. Citing a nondisclosure agreement, he refused to identify the financial backers of the proposal, which are believed to include not only SoftBank but also financing from the Middle East, which Infantino eventually denied were directly linked to sovereign wealth funds. (Saudi Arabia remains the biggest individual backer over Softbank’s Vision Fund, the biggest private-equity fund ever raised.) Instead, Infantino pressed the council to let him close the deal on his own.European leaders at the meeting balked, and Ceferin and Infantino have not held a meeting since the Colombia summit. In October, European officials threatened to walk out of the last meeting when Infantino suggested he planned to call another vote.The vote did not take place; instead, FIFA set up a task force involving representatives from the six confederations and asked it to produce an acceptable plan before a scheduled FIFA Council meeting in March in Miami.At the last summit, in Morocco, Infantino expressed frustration to the officials who declined to take part in the vote for his plans, according to multiple people present at the meeting.“As part of this discussion, people are asked to give their feedback on a series of proposals and, as in any democratic consultation process, every member can express its opinion freely,” FIFA said in a statement. “The feedback received will be fed back to the Council together with the results of the other consultation platforms.”FIFA’s task force for the two tournaments will hold its next meeting on Feb. 21 in Rio de Janeiro. As tensions grow, however, there is a chance that European executives will not attend, according to a person familiar with the continental leaders’ plans.UEFA declined to comment. The organization has been seeking the support of European clubs and leagues to oppose Infantino’s proposals. At the last two meetings, Ceferin has arrived armed with signed letters of opposition from The European Club Association, a union of the continent’s top clubs, and a separate group representing the continent’s domestic leagues.The proposals to expand the Club World Cup and to create a new global Nations League similar to the recently created UEFA version largely have the backing of officials from South America, Africa and Asia — likely enough to win a vote should Infantino choose to take one at the Miami meeting. Any such move would exacerbate the growing rift with Europe, however, and potentially lead to a larger crisis if top clubs and leading nations from UEFA refuse to participate in the new FIFA-controlled tournaments.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNDavid Steinberg roots around and comes up with a tough Saturday puzzle.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  Lo, and behold this cute little snowflake grid from David Steinberg. The longest entries are but seven letters, and I feel I shall make short work of it. Said I before I’d dug in at all, let alone too deep. In truth, this was a pretty slow solve for me, which is typical when tackling Mr. Steinberg’s creations. I'll say I chose to work my way around the center cross, but that’s mainly because I made some early headway in the southwest corner and passively followed it east, to a delightful little menagerie. Then I had to backtrack and head northwest again because the northeast corner was tough as nails, and after a couple of missteps, everything up there fell in place.One of the very last entries I got was the eye-twitch inducer du jour, I guess, SCHMUCK. I had a Yiddish-speaking grandma and I remember hearing schmendrick, schlemiel and schlamozzle, but I think SCHMUCK was verboten. This clue made me think of a recent reference, though, and chuckle a bit — it was when Harrison Ford almost caused some massive air collision while landing his little plane.There are differing opinions, by people who know (or are interested in) the etymology of SCHMUCK, of its appropriateness for ordinary use. It has made just two appearances in the puzzle already, once in 2005 (plural, clued as “Jerks”), and once in 1975 (plural again, “Oafs”). (By the way, I got all stressed out about IT'S A ME MARIO last weekend for much the same reasons. My oft-mentioned cruciverbal colleague referred this matter to her husband, who is both Italian and a gamer, and although it’s a week late and a lira short I could not resist reporting to you his reaction, which was, “It’s a-ffensive!”)1A: First of all, football can be soccer, lest we sports anti-fans forget. Second of all, if you’re staring at your grid wondering what begins with A-C-M, let alone a sports team, you’re fine. Mr. Steinberg is referring to AC MILAN, an early Italian football club; there are much older teams, though, and football had already become an Olympic sport, in 1896.18A: I think my Waterloo in this quadrant was caused by entering “spinoff” here, bizarrely and confidently, since I’d heard of “The Good Wife,” a television show, and vaguely heard there were more shows based on it. A lot of you probably thought of PARABLE as a gimme. I also had “new to” instead of NEW AT, which made a letter string of S-R-T-N in 8D, which was befuddling.33A: Where else do we get to delve our academic memories for nuggets like this? Hans Christian OERSTED was the physicist who, in the 1820s, discovered a relationship between electrical currents and magnetism. He was also famously one of the first scientists to extract aluminum, if you were remembering the name for some other reason.59A, and friends: “Enthusiastic greeting” is a good tricky clue for what could be sort of alarming to those conscious of personal space — I was thinking “tail wag,” but it’s BEAR HUG. BEAR HUG runs over CAT POSE, which alternates with cow pose for a good back stretch you should go do every so often (in private, if you’re self-conscious at all, really). Crossing with ROAD HOG (which could also have been “ball hog” as clued — both are funny) was clever as a fox, Mr. Steinberg.1D: This entry was easy to find on crosses, but it’s a little mysterious. Are ACCENTS highlights or is this a play on a stereotypical snobby French coiffeur?12D: Something about this corner in the aggregate made it hard but fun, with roughly four of seven down clues from the top being puns; this one, “Place to get wired,” or USB PORT, was particularly good.24D: This could have also been clued, universally, as “dogs like cats’, but not vice versa,” because there has never been a dog that doesn’t joyously devour cat KIBBLES, but cats think that dog food is junk. Every cat and dog on Earth was polled on this question and the results were unanimous.This themeless dates back to March 2016. I started in the upper left with the Scrabbly NOXZEMA/CINEMAX crossing, though my favorite corner is actually the lower right. Even though the short crossings aren’t as smooth, I really like the trio of animal entries (ROAD HOG, BEAR HUG, and CAT POSE). SCHMUCK is a bit edgy for my current taste, but I’ll always have a soft spot for Yiddish and other words that relate to Jewish culture. I debuted HAMANTASCHEN in a Newsday Saturday Stumper a few years ago, and lately I’ve been trying to work RUGELACH into a themeless grid.In other news, I was recently named editor of the Universal Crossword and Universal Sunday Crossword! The former appears daily in The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, and numerous other domestic and international newspapers. If you’re looking for a cooldown after solving my Saturday puzzle, you won’t want to miss today’s offering from the amazing Zhouqin Burnikel (available after midnight Central time).Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelATLANTA — Before playing their most critical 30 minutes of the season, the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots will spend at least 30 minutes preparing for them.Halftime at the Super Bowl lasts more than twice as long as the standard 13-minute N.F.L. intermission, giving teams more time to strategize and rest but also to stay limber and energized as they rehydrate, regroup and reset for one final surge.A Super Bowl halftime unfurls like a slow drip. Players sit at their stools for a few minutes. They can breathe, and they can think, mindful of preserving energy without cooling down. Coaches convene for several minutes compiling a checklist. Assistants communicate corrections and tactical adjustments. Coordinators gather units at the ends of the room. Trainers wield foam rollers to smooth tight muscles. Head coaches emphasize points. Officials remind teams when 10 minutes remain, then five, then two.[Read about Sean McVay’s rise to lead the Rams to the Super Bowl.]A normal halftime unfolds as if caffeinated. Players retape their joints, adjust their pads and change their undershirts and shoes. They down bananas and orange slices, guzzle water and energy drinks and huddle with coaches, who, after hustling down elevators from their upstairs perches, make a small tweak or two and then, boom, off they go again. As if spectators and not participants, they debate whether they have enough time to use the restroom.“You’re out the door almost as fast as you come in,” said Matt Light, an offensive tackle who played in five Super Bowls for New England.Former Patriots players said Bill Belichick, who is set to coach in his ninth Super Bowl with New England, describes the logistics of halftime ahead of the game in as much detail as he would a game plan. The clock starts within 60 to 90 seconds of the team leaving the field. The halftime show, which begins after nine minutes, lasts about 13 and a half minutes. About seven minutes before kickoff, players begin filtering out to stretch and warm up.“There’s definitely never a time where we’re just sitting there wondering what’s going on,” Patriots receiver Chris Hogan said.Belichick views the two halves of a Super Bowl almost like a doubleheader, with a gap between games for players to recuperate mentally and physically, according to players and coaches who have been through this with him. (By now there are a lot of them.) He reminds the players to hydrate and keep their emotions in check, sharing cautionary tales.The pregame festivities ahead of the Super Bowl are far longer than usual, too, and before the unbeaten 2007 Patriots lost to the Giants in Super Bowl XLII, Belichick told players how receiver Troy Brown once expended so much energy before one of their championships that he was winded by kickoff.A member of that team, receiver Donté Stallworth, had a history of muscle injuries, and he thought it would be warm inside the stadium in Arizona. Hesitant to receive fluids intravenously — “I really hate needles,” he said — he suppressed his fear after Randy Moss, in colorful language, reminded him that he’d be playing in the Super Bowl. The infusion helped to keep his muscles loose and pliant before the game, and then at halftime he placed heat packs under his legs to warm his hamstrings.Some teams simulate the extended halftime by taking 30-minute breaks in practice. It worked for the Eagles last year. It didn’t for the Patriots seven years ago.“I don’t think you perfect it,” said Ivan Fears, New England’s running backs coach since 2002. “I think you have an idea of how to handle it because we’ve been there a few times.”In each of their two Super Bowl victories against New England, the Giants followed the same comprehensive blueprint, the notes for which Jerry Palmieri, the team’s strength and conditioning coach at the time, has kept. Upon returning to the locker room, he said, players had but one responsibility.“Just chill,” Palmieri said in a telephone interview. “We didn’t come back to them, as coaches, until 13 minutes remained.”Josh McDaniels, the Patriots’ offensive coordinator, cautioned against overthinking as coaches. Just because there’s more time, he said, doesn’t mean they need to use it all.The Rams, in their first Super Bowl under Coach Sean McVay, chose to run special-teams periods at specific junctures of practice so their offensive and defensive units could rest. John Fassel, the Rams’ special-teams coach, said he has told the players on the coverage team to warm up their hamstrings early if they wind up kicking off in the second half.Given the Rams’ penchant for trickery, it’s possible they will mimic one of the more famous gambits in Super Bowl history, when New Orleans entered halftime trailing Indianapolis, 10-6, with the Colts, guided by Peyton Manning, slated to receive the second-half kickoff. Aaron Kromer, who served on the Saints’ staff that year and now coordinates the Rams’ running game, said Thursday that the team knew it had to steal a possession to defeat Manning.And so, early in the break, Coach Sean Payton informed kicker Thomas Morstead that instead of booting the ball deep, he’d squib an onside kick. Morstead told reporters afterward that he was terrified, but New Orleans recovered, scored a touchdown on that drive and eventually won.Reggie Wayne, a receiver on that Colts team and now an analyst for NFL Network, said he had been antsy during that halftime, knowing his team had the momentum.“We were saying to each other, you know, in the locker room, if we go down and score on this drive, we’ll kill ’em, we can bury them, you know what I mean?” he said. “Then they came out with the onside kick. So maybe we needed more time.”The additional time did help the Patriots, trailing the Atlanta Falcons by 18 points two years ago, in a specific way: They could refocus. From speaking with players, Matt Chatham, a three-time Super Bowl winner with New England who is now an analyst for NESN, said he expected to hear that tables were overturned, voices were raised and significant changes made. Instead, he said, he heard the opposite. There was urgency, but there was no rush.“We just went out and played as bad as we possibly could,” said Hogan, relaying Belichick’s message. “Let’s play better and see where it puts us.”New England’s defense coalesced as Tom Brady dissected man-to-man coverage. Atlanta, exhausted, collapsed. The Patriots scored the final 31 points and won in overtime. They could all agree, it was worth the wait.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigelNaila-Jean Meyers contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiThe comedian Amanda Seales dissects sexuality and race in a new special on HBO. And Willie Nelson takes the stage on “Austin City Limits.”AMANDA SEALES: I BE KNOWIN’ (2019) 10 p.m. on HBO; stream on HBO Go or HBO Now. In her first hourlong stand-up special, the comedian Amanda Seales (“Insecure,” “black-ish”) breaks down why catcalling is the opposite of complimenting and explains what differentiates a “Hannah” (a person who happens to be white) from a “Becky” (a white person). Seales hosts a weekly podcast called “Small Doses” and is touring with “Smart Funny & Black,” a game show she created that tests contestants’ knowledge of black culture and history.SLENDER MAN STABBING: THE UNTOLD STORY (2019) 8 p.m. on Reelz. In 2014, Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier, both 12, took their friend Payton Leutner into the Wisconsin woods and stabbed her 19 times. They said they did it to appease Slender Man, a shadowy, mythical character that has become a legend since taking shape in an online forum nearly a decade ago. (Leutner managed to crawl away and eventually recovered. Geyser, who wielded the knife, pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide and was sentenced to 40 years in a psychiatric hospital.) This new documentary special charts the events leading up to the crime through interviews with detectives, lawyers and relatives of the teenagers. The case also receives the documentary treatment in the 2016 HBO film “Beware the Slenderman.” (For those more interested in a fictional version, the 2018 horror flick “Slender Man” is available for rental on Amazon, Google Play or YouTube.)KNIGHT SQUAD 9 p.m. on Nickelodeon. The knights in training Arc (Owen Joyner) and Ciara (Daniella Perkins) rush to save the day in this Season 2 finale after hearing that Ryker (Geno Segers) nearly has his hands on the Armor of Astoria. Sydney Park, of “The Walking Dead” and “Spirit Riding Free,” guest stars.AUSTIN CITY LIMITS 11 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Willie Nelson performs songs off his Grammy-nominated album “My Way,” a collection of standards from the Great American Songbook that serves as a tribute to his friend Frank Sinatra.JERRY MAGUIRE (1996) stream on Amazon and Hulu; rent on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Stream this romantic comedy by Cameron Crowe before it leaves Amazon Prime Video and Hulu at the end of the month. Tom Cruise stars as the memorable title character, a big-time sports agent who realizes he no longer enjoys the corporate detachment that comes with the job. That epiphany gets him fired, so he starts his own agency with the help of Dorothy (Renée Zellweger), a former co-worker, and manages to cling to one client, Rod (Cuba Gooding Jr. in a flamboyant, Oscar-winning performance), a football player who is at once admirable and unbearable (“Show me the money!”).An earlier version of this article reversed the parentheticals about Amanda Seales’s HBO special. It should be “differentiates a ‘Hannah’ (a person who happens to be white) from a ‘Becky’ (a white person),” not “differentiates a ‘Hannah’ (a white person) from a ‘Becky’ (a person who happens to be white).”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeremy EngleSports is not just about X’s and O’s or wins and losses; it’s also about ethics and economics, race and gender, science and technology, joy and camaraderie, and nearly everything in between. Sports allows us to admire the awesomeness of the human body and the artistry of athletes in action, and to explore stories of grit and resilience and our need for heroes and villains.While it might not be immediately obvious to all teachers, particularly those who aren’t die-hard fans, sports is also an endless source of inspiration for making arguments and throwing down facts.In this lesson, we explore how to use the world of sports to help students effectively develop evidence-based arguments. We suggest three categories for practicing the skill in sports contexts — from making a case for the G.O.A.T. to taking on current sports-world controversies to proposing rule changes to make a sport or tournament better. We end the lesson with a few strategies for bringing debate and argument writing alive in the classroom.Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear your ideas. Post a comment or write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com._________Who is the G.O.A.T.?No, not those cute animals with the horns and the beard. The Greatest of All Time.No matter how seemingly impossible it is to determine the G.O.A.T., it is a perennial favorite argument for sports fans and is debated regularly in The New York Times.The G.O.A.T. argument comes in many forms: Best Game, Best Season, Best Coach, Best Team, Greatest Upset, Greatest Olympian. Even best and worst sports cities.But how do you decide: Is it the accomplishments on the playing field or is it a player’s greater impact beyond his or her sport? How do you compare one era to another?Is Tom Brady the greatest football player of all time? Who would you pick, Michael Jordan or LeBron James? Is Serena Williams the greatest athlete of all time? Or is it Muhammad Ali?Jesse Owens won four gold medals in the Munich Olympics in 1936, broke or equaled nine Olympic records, also set three world records and single-handedly shattered Adolf Hitler’s myth of Aryan superiority; yet his record mark of 10.3 seconds in the 100 meters would today be 21 feet behind Usain Bolt’s record of 9.58. Would it be more fair to incorporate broader cultural accomplishments? Or should the Greatest of All Time focus solely on the numbers?Student Challenge: Make your case for the G.O.A.T.First, ask your students to decide which aspect of the G.O.A.T. debate they would like to tackle: greatest play, season, game, coach, athlete, et cetera.Next, they should define their criteria for greatness: Does greatest mean the player you want to be up at bat in the seventh game of the World Series, two outs in the bottom of the ninth? Is it instead the number of an athlete’s victories? His or her longevity? The relative strength of the competition? The athlete’s impact within, as well as beyond, the sport?Advance Evidence-Based Arguments and Tackle Counterarguments Use a model text or two to help students move from mere assertion or opinion to rigorous, evidence-based argument. Here are a few excerpts to highlight how authors both support claims with evidence and anticipate counterarguments:In “Is Russell Westbrook’s Season the Best Ever? Some Apples and Oranges to Pick From,” Jeré Longman supports his claims with evidence using sports statistics:Westbrook’s season, while awesome, is not the greatest in N.B.A. history. That belongs to none other than Wilt Chamberlain in 1961-62 with the Philadelphia Warriors. Chamberlain averaged 50.4 points and 25.7 rebounds that season and (this may be the greatest stat in all of sports) 48.5 minutes played per game. Regulation games last 48 minutes, but the Warriors played seven games that extended for at least one period of overtime. During that 80-game regular season, Chamberlain played 3,882 of Philadelphia’s possible 3,890 minutes.On March 2, 1962, Chamberlain famously scored 100 points against the Knicks, but that was only the culmination of a four-game stretch in which he scored 67, 65 and 61 points in the three previous games, according to basketball-reference.com. All told, he scored at least 60 points 15 times that season, including a stunning performance on Dec. 8, 1961, against the Lakers, in which Chamberlain delivered 78 points and 43 rebounds.In “It’s Time to Appreciate Serena Williams’s Greatness,” Christopher Clarey anticipates counterarguments:In light of that and Williams’s enduring excellence, there is momentum building behind the concept of deeming her the greatest player ever. It is a subjective process, one in which it is always tempting to give too much weight to the great champion in front of you, the one whose victory under pressure is freshest in your mind.What is beyond dispute is that Williams has not been nearly as consistent in regular tour events during her career as players like Navratilova, Chris Evert and Graf.Navratilova won 167 singles titles as well as 177 doubles titles in an era when doubles was much more prestigious than now. Evert won 154 singles titles. Graf, who did not play as long as Williams has played, won 107. Williams, for the moment, has 67, which puts her in a tie for sixth on the career list with Billie Jean King. …But if “greatest” means the player who would have beaten all the rest at their peaks, it is hard not to feel a strong pull in Williams’s direction. Her power serving and her serving under pressure are weapons that no other great player has possessed to the same degree. Modern equipment is certainly a factor, but she is also complete off the ground and, guided by her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, improving her volleys, overheads and tactical variations.Together, the class might analyze how these authors develop their case for G.O.A.T., for example, by defining their terms for greatness, providing evidence to support claims and anticipating and then considering potential counterclaims.Here are additional resources, from The Times, and elsewhere, that can provide alternative mentor texts:The Fine Line: What Makes Simone Biles the World’s Best Gymnast Eliud Kipchoge Is the Greatest Marathoner, Ever On Team of All-Time Greats, Pelé Shines Brightest Golden State Warriors Are Closing In on History Lindsey Vonn to Retire: Vonn Leaves as the Greatest Women’s Skier in History G.O.A.T. Athletes: The Definitive List | Complex.com Babe Didrikson, the Greatest Female Athlete of All Time? | The Guardian Major League Baseball: The Case for Babe Ruth as the Best Ever | Bleacher Report Tom Brady Has Surpassed Joe Montana as the G.O.A.T. | ESPN’s First Take (Video) LeBron James Has Already Passed Michael Jordan as Greatest Player | Fox Sports - Undisputed (Video)Ultimately, there is no right answer to the G.O.A.T. question. To some, Jesse Owens will always be the G.O.A.T. for his cultural impact; for others, Bill Russell’s 11 N.B.A. championships will trump all other measures. But that is the beauty of the debate. And in the end, it’s about the power of the argument to persuade others — at least for that day — who is the Greatest of All Time._________Should athletes who use steroids be barred from professional sports? Should players have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Should college athletes be paid?These are just a few of the countless debates that come and go in the world of sports. Any one of them is ripe for students to investigate and debate to practice their inquiry and argument skills.In this section we present three sports-related case studies to demonstrate how students can develop good research questions, assert a strong claim and study mentor texts as a way to improve their debate writing and speaking skills. And these three topics are just the tip of the iceberg; at the end of the section, we suggest another 11 current issues in sports for students to explore. And we’re confident your students would have plenty more topics to add to our list.Case Study #1. Sports and ConcussionsSports are often associated with heroism — endurance, toughness, and valor. It has long been assumed that an athlete will have to make physical sacrifices to achieve greatness. But the sacrifice is now being questioned because of changes in our understanding of the impact sports can have on our bodies and minds.The brain trauma sustained in football and other contact sports is now linked to long-term cognitive impairment, including memory loss, confusion, depression and dementia. Although media coverage of concussions has focused on tackle football, these health issues are evident in many other sports like hockey, soccer, basketball, Nascar, skiing, snowboarding and BMX freestyle, among others.The debate is not merely academic; it is causing significant changes to our understanding of athletes and athletics and is threatening the future viability of some of the world’s most popular sports.Develop Winning QuestionsResearch generally begins with asking good questions. Even a topic as seemingly straight forward as sports-related concussions has many layers of complexity. So students should begin their research by asking themselves: What about this topic interests me most? What do I want to learn more about?For example, if they want to start with the science, they might generate questions like: What is the impact of a single concussion? What is the long-term impact of brain trauma? What is the degenerative brain disease C.T.E.? And what is the impact of concussions on youths?Or they may instead decide to investigate the role equipment plays, look into possible reforms or consider ethical implications. If they decide to go in any of these directions, they might come up with questions like: How do concussions affect athletes’ short- and long-term physical and mental health? How does this affect the people around them? What is the role of equipment in brain trauma? Can equipment reduce concussions or does it give players a false sense of security, therefore making the problem worse? Should parents let their children play football? Or are we obsessing about the dangers? Should we as fans still watch football?No matter what question or questions students start with, research inevitably leads to asking more questions.Some other relevant resources: 110 N.F.L. Brains. All But One Had C.T.E. A Football Player’s Descent Into Pain and Paranoia Anatomy of a Traditional Football Helmet Concussions Can Occur in All Youth SportsCanadian Football’s Big Steps to Reduce Hits, a Contrast to the N.F.L.Case Study #2. National Anthem ProtestsPolitical activism and protests by athletes are nothing new. Muhammad Ali publicly criticized the Vietnam War. John Carlos and Tommie Smith raised fists during a medal ceremony at the 1968 Olympics. Following the fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and the other members of the Miami Heat posted a photo of themselves wearing hooded sweatshirts in his memory. But perhaps no act of political protest today is more polarizing than the stance by Colin Kaepernick to kneel during the national anthem at N.F.L. games.If students want to argue a position related to recent national anthem protests, they should start by asking a question. For example, should athletes have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Or are athletes who protest being patriotic or unpatriotic? As students do research, they will gather evidence that will support a position. Once they find enough compelling evidence, they are ready to assert a claim (or thesis or resolution).Assert a Claim In small groups or as a whole class, students can debate one or more claims that were generated by students — or the teacher. After they have the opportunity to test their arguments with their peers and hear other points of view, they can write up their argument as an essay or editorial.Below are a few possible resolutions that students can affirm or negate, with related articles below.Resolution 1: The N.F.L. has the right to demand that its players stand during the national anthem.Surprise! The N.F.L. National Anthem Problem Is Not Going Away. N.F.L. Anthem Policy Bound to Please Only the N.F.L. Trump Supports N.F.L.’s New National Anthem Policy Dolphins Policy Says Players Could Be Suspended for Anthem ProtestsResolution 2: Colin Kaepernick is a hero.Why Kaepernick Takes the Knee This Time, Colin Kaepernick Takes a Stand by Kneeling The Awakening of Colin Kaepernick The Deafening Silence of Colin Kaepernick Colin Kaepernick’s Nike Campaign Keeps N.F.L. Anthem Kneeling in SpotlightResolution 3: Schools have the right to suspend student-athletes who protest during their games.Protest Started by Colin Kaepernick Spreads to High School Students High School Students Explain Why They Protest Anthems and Pledges High Schools Threaten to Punish Students Who Kneel During Anthem High School Students Kicked Off Football Team After Protesting During National AnthemResolution 4: Athletes who are politically active are a distraction to their teams and should stick to competing in their sport.In 2017, Many Athletes Found Their Voices Should Athletes Stick to Sports? Colin Kaepernick and the Myth of the ‘Good’ ProtestCase Study #3. Performance-Enhancing DrugsCheating has always existed in sports: spitballs in baseball; weighted gloves in boxing; stealing another team’s signs. Players are always looking for an edge, but perhaps none is more contentious and troubling than the edge that performance-enhancing drugs provide — steroids, human growth hormone, blood doping.Some of sports’ most celebrated athletes have been caught using PEDs: for example, the cyclist Lance Armstrong, the gold-medal runner Marion Jones, the tennis champion Maria Sharapova and the Ultimate Fighting Championship star Jon Jones. In 2018, the entire Russian Winter Olympic team was barred from competing for doping violations.Let’s say students have already generated their research questions related to the topic of performance-enhancing drugs in sports, they have done initial research, and they have asserted a claim they plan to defend in writing. What else can they do before they start typing to get an edge?Study the ProsAnalyzing mentor texts can help students identify how writers build arguments using claims, reasons and supporting details, and they can help students see how to develop effective counterarguments as well.Here are excerpts from two Opinion essays offering opposing viewpoints to the question: Should known steroid users be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame?In “Keep Rose, Bond and Clemens Out of the Baseball Hall of Fame,” Bijan C. Bayne makes the case for why Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, two statistical heavyweights in the sport, should not be inducted into the Hall of Fame:Bonds and Clemens … sealed their own Hall of Fame fates.Bonds has said he didn’t know what was in ointments and injections he received — the “clear” and the “cream” — or that they contained steroids. Bonds insults our intelligence by feigning ignorance. World-class athletes know how many grams of protein are in a six ounce portion of salmon. Why would he use these substances without knowing their purpose?While some might say that performance-enhancing drugs don’t enhance the hand-eye coordination that made him great even before he seems to have started using them, they do produce stronger, larger muscles that facilitate quicker reaction times. Larger muscles also increase hitting power. And these drugs allow for faster recovery times after the fatigue of weight training and aid athletic endurance.Zev Chafets argues the other side in “Let Steroids Into the Hall of Fame”:Purists say that steroids alter the game. But since the Hall opened its doors, baseball has never stopped changing. Batters now wear body padding and helmets. The pitcher’s mound has risen and fallen. Bats have more pop. Night games affect visibility. Players stay in shape in the off-season. Expansion has altered the game’s geography. And its demography has changed beyond recognition. Babe Ruth never faced a black pitcher. As Chris Rock put it, Ruth’s record consisted of “714 affirmative-action home runs.” This doesn’t diminish Ruth’s accomplishment, but it puts it into context.After reading these different points of view, students can brainstorm a list of strengths and weaknesses in each article and in each writer’s argument. Which argument is more effective? Convincing? Memorable? What elements are fact versus opinion? When is opinion most appropriate in an argument? Are there any aspects of either article that seem weak? Why? What might make these arguments stronger?Together, the class can create a list of dos and don’ts for building an argument. For example, “DO: support your ideas with relevant statistics.” Or, “DON’T: assume your reader will agree with your viewpoint.”For students researching this topic, here are just a few of the many related resources in The Times and elsewhere:Some other relevant resourcesShould Doping Be Allowed? Testing Levels the Playing Field How to Fight Doping in Sports Would legal doping level playing field? A Voice of Skepticism on the Impact of Steroids There Are No Sound Moral Arguments Against Performance-Enhancing Drugs Performance-enhancing drugs: Know the risks | Mayo Clinic Why Cheating in Sports Is Prevalent — and We Can’t Stop It | Forbes Magazine The Steroid Problem, and How to Fix It | Sports Illustrated Kids_________Other Current Debates in SportsWe have provided three possible case studies above to explore, but there are innumerable questions to research, discuss and debate. Here is an additional list of 11 questions. And of course, students can suggest their own topics.Should Every Young Athlete Get a Trophy? Should Character Matter in Pro Sports? Is It Wrong to Let Children Do Extreme Sports? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Gambling on Sporting Events Be Legal? Should Male and Female Athletes Be Paid the Same? Is Technology Helping or Hurting Sports? Is the 3-Point Basket Ruining Basketball? Is Horse Racing Ethical? Are Advanced Statistics Helping or Hurting Sports? Should Offensive Team Names and Mascots Be Ended?_________Asking students to question the status quo in the world of sports doesn’t only help them strengthen their argument writing and speaking skills, but it can also strengthen their creative thinking and problem-solving skills.A. Propose a New Sport for the OlympicsWe have all played or watched sports. But what exactly is a sport?What is the difference between a sport and a hobby? Is fishing a sport? How about poker? What about E-sports? Should the top players of League of Legends be considered athletes? And if so, would they be in the same class as LeBron James?How about chess?Don’t answer too quickly; chess is recognized as a sport in 107 countries. Poker is broadcast on ESPN.Define Your TermsAn essential aspect of making an effective argument is the need to be clear and precise in defining terms. We discussed earlier about how one defines G.O.A.T. frames the entire “greatest of all time” debate. The same can be said for defining terms like “performance-enhancing drugs” in the debate about steroids or “patriotic” in the discussion about national anthem protests. When it comes to deciding what should or should not be considered a sport, or an Olympic sport, defining the term “sport” is essential.Students might begin by reading the following articles and then designing their own criteria for what is or isn’t a sport:Are Video Games a Sport Born on Sideline, Cheering Clamors to Be Sport Competitive Bridge Is Not a Sport, a British Court RulesStudent Challenge: Make a formal argument to the International Olympic Committee to add or delete a sport.The fight over which sports get to be featured in the Olympics sheds light on the continuing societal question, “What is a sport?” Currently, there are 28 summer and 15 winter Olympic sports. (See the full list of sports here.) Did you know life saving is  officially recognized by the International Olympic Committee as a sport (though, as Victor Mather writes, “that doesn’t mean it will take its place in the Summer Games alongside venerable sports like track, basketball and synchronized swimming”).Students can begin their research with the following examples:Are Video Games Olympic Material? Some Boosters Say Yes The Olympics Would Be Better With a Breakdancing Competition. Discuss. Great Moments in Cheerleading: Could the Olympics Be Next? Too Many Olympic Events, or Not Enough?Next, students should pick one Olympic sport to add or delete. They should then prepare an argument to support this proposal.In making their case, students should compare the sports they are proposing to existing Olympic sports, and provide criteria for assessing those comparisons.In his Room for Debate opinion essay “Drop the Sliding Sports,” Robert K. Barney writes:Are there some winter sports that should be dropped? It may be perceived by many as blasphemous, but I have always had a difficult time in equating the demonstrated lack of athletic qualities in winter sliding sports, like bobsled, luge and skeleton, that depend more on technology and less on athleticism with those sports that reflect the epitome of strength, agility, endurance and strategy (nordic and Alpine skiing, speed and figure skating, and so on).B. Propose a Rule ChangeRules are essential for any game or sport, yet they change all the time. How basketball is played can vary greatly from state to state. Every few years, it seems, the National Football League changes what qualifies as a catch and a legal tackle, alternately confusing and infuriating players and fans alike.Student Challenge: Propose a rule change to improve the game.For inspiration, students might read some of these proposed changes — big and small, practical as well as fantastical — from the pages of The Times before making a pitch for their own rule changes.Baseball’s Too Slow. Here’s How You Fix It. Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination In a Hole, Golf Considers Digging a Wider One Still Questioning the Best-of-Five Format in Men’s Tennis Drivers, Start Your Calculators: Nascar Introduces New Scoring System Room for Debate: Raise the RimConsider the Proposal From All SidesWhether you want to raise the basketball rim by six inches or triple the size of a golf hole, you’ll need to consider how the change would affect the sport from all angles. In guiding their research for the development of their proposal, students should keep in mind the following questions:• What are some weaknesses of the current game? (e.g., amount of scoring, length or speed of the game, popularity, and ratings)• What are the causes of the weakness? (e.g., tradition, the age of the fan base, technology)• What are some possible solutions?• How hard would it be to put the rule change in place?• What might be the drawbacks or unintended consequences of your game change?• How might purists or other critics respond to your rule change? How might you try to persuade them to join your side?In “Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination,” Rob Hughes passionately states a perceived problem in the current game of soccer:The penalty shootout is an abomination. It reduces a team sport to a contrived tiebreaker that obliges physically tired and emotionally drained players to step up one by one, trudge half the length of the field and try to shoot down the opponent’s goalkeeper from 12 yards....Júlio César Soares de Espíndola — to give him his full title — guessed correctly and dove the right way to save the first two penalty kicks against him. He then was beaten twice. Finally, Júlio César just got plain lucky when Gonzalo Jara fired Chile’s fifth penalty beyond his reach, but against the post.From that twist of fate, that misplacement by inches, Brazil’s hope of winning the World Cup for the sixth time in its illustrious history remains on track. Two hundred million hearts in Brazil can beat again. Chile can go home across the Andes, defeated not by two hours of soccer, but by the lottery of shootouts that have their proper place alongside fairground games such as knocking over targets at a dozen paces.Later, Mr. Hughes considers some solutions to the problem:The old solution used to be that tied games were replayed, but in today’s crowded schedules, expediency demands that the result is decided on that day. FIFA tried the toss of a coin and had rejected a brighter idea from the now defunct North American Soccer League.The N.A.S.L. of the 1970s had, to my mind, a fairer option.It required an outfield player to run with the ball from 35 yards out, giving him five seconds to score and allowing the goalkeeper to advance toward the player.That at least contained more skills than the single shot of a nervous, fatigued individual.No matter what rule they focus on, students should be clear to state the problem with the status quo and support their claim with details. Then they should propose a solution and explain why it would help to eliminate, or at least improve, the problem with the current rule._________Below, we provide a few possible ways students can build their argument writing and speaking skills and demonstrate those skills in front of an audience:A. Write an EditorialHave your students pick a sports-related issue that matters to them, such as inequity in pay for female athletes, and then write an evidence-based persuasive essay like the editorials The New York Times publishes every day. They can practice all year, but save their best work to submit in our annual Student Editorial Contest. (See our contest calendar for more details.) Each year we select 10 winners along with dozens of runners-up and honorable mentions from thousands of submissions.Here are some sports-related editorials from the New York Times Editorial Board that can serve as mentor texts (in addition to our winning editorials from past years):The Corruption at the Heart of March MadnessRein In Online Fantasy Sports Gambling What Time Is the A.F.C. Championship Game? The Scars From ‘Bell-Ringing’ Football Tackles Who Gets to Race as a Woman? Special Olympics Takes On the WorldAdditional Resources for Writing EditorialsStudent Writing Models | Winning Student Editorials. Lesson Plan | Persuading an Audience Using Logos, Pathos and Ethos  Lesson Plan | For the Sake of Argument: Writing Persuasively to Craft Short, Evidence-Based Editorials Lesson Plan | I Don’t Think So: Writing Effective CounterargumentsB. Have a DebateThere are many ways to hold formal and informal debates. Here are a few popular formats:Lincoln-Douglas Debate: In this formal debate format, arguments are divided into timed segments and go back and forth between the “pro” and the “con” sides, with teams presenting arguments, providing evidence to support arguments and offering rebuttals. See our 2004 lesson Weighing the War for more details about this format.Roundtable Discussion: Students take on the role of experts and engage in a talk show-style debate similar to the discussion format on such TV shows as “Meet the Press.”Tournament Brackets: Students hold a research- and debate-based “tournament” to determine the “winners” of each round, until a final winner is declared.Structured Academic Controversy: Pairs assigned to each position research and then present their argument to a pair that is assigned the opposing side. The debate follows these steps: Identify the argument; present the argument; restate the argument; discuss opinions; share conclusions; debrief the exercise. See our lesson On ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’: Debating a Proposed Repeal for more details about this format.Moving Debate: After preparing for a debate on an assigned topic, students are arranged in the room in three sections: agree, disagree and neutral/unsure. The debate proceeds with “members” of each section taking turns to make arguments for their position and ask questions of others. As they are beginning to question, refine or change their positions (even momentarily so), they physically move to the sections of the room that reflect their mind-set. See the civics section of our lesson Preserve, Protect and Defend? Considering Violent Protests and American Values for more details about this format.Other resourcesConstructing Arguments: ‘Room for Debate’ and the Common Core Standards Reader Idea | Using Room for Debate to Teach Argumentative Writing and Discussion Skills Winners of Our Student Contest Featured in a Special Room for Debate Post Reader Idea | Debates on Persuasive Language That Extend Outside of ClassC. Use Our Daily Student Opinion PromptsOf all the resources we publish on The Learning Network, perhaps it’s our vast collection of writing prompts that is our most widely used resource for teaching and learning with The Times.So scroll through the sports-related prompts below and see which ones most inspire you to take a stand. Each question comes from our daily Student Opinion feature, and each provides links to free Times resources for finding more information.Are Some Youth Sports Too Intense? Should There Be Stricter Rules About How Coaches Treat Their Players? Do Sports Teams Have a Responsibility to Hold Players to a Standard for Their Personal Conduct? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Colleges Fund Wellness Programs Instead of Sports? Do Fans Put Too Much Pressure on Their Favorite Professional Athletes? How Much Should Fans Be Allowed to Distract Opposing Teams? Has Baseball Lost Its Cool? Should Women’s Basketball Lower the Rims? Is It Offensive for Sports Teams to Use Native American Names and Mascots? Should Technology in Sports Be Limited?D. Create A Public Service AnnouncementThere are many ways to present an argument; while many of our previous examples focus on writing and speaking, visual thinking is also important. Public service announcements can be both fun and a challenging way for students to take a stance on an issue and to creatively persuade audiences.Students can begin with traditional forms of research and then identify an issue or stance they want to take before envisioning their P.S.A. They can then plan, storyboard, rehearse, record and edit a 30- or 60-second video including a tagline and message.To start, students should view and analyze professional sports public service announcements to understand the strengths and weaknesses of the form. You can use these professional PSAs as models:Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality NFL Players & Coaches Stand Together to Cure ALS NFL Players’ Concussion PSA: Be Man Enough to Admit When You’re Hurt PSA Youth Concussions UEFA’s Anti-racism Resolution Thierry Henry Stand UP, Speak UP CommercialAs a class, analyze and discuss: What is a public service announcement? How is it different from a commercial? What is the message of the P.S.A.? Who is the target audience? What video and audio elements were used? How did these elements strengthen the message? How effective was the P.S.A.? How might you improve it?After identifying their issue or question and conducting research, students can begin planning their public service announcement.Here are some process steps to consider:• Determine a clear message. • Identify a target audience. • Develop a tagline or slogan. • Brainstorm video (stills, graphics, performers) and audio (narration, voice-over, music, sound effects) elements you will use to convey your message. • Storyboard your PSA. • Rehearse. • Record. • Edit._________Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear more about how. Write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com, or post a comment here. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben RothenbergMELBOURNE, Australia — With the end in sight, the capacity crowd inside Melbourne Arena rose to its feet. Andy Murray soaked in their ovation, and their emotions, and then began to let his out.As his first-round match at the Australian Open reached the four-hour mark Monday evening, Murray was trailing his Spanish opponent, Roberto Bautista Agut, by 1-5 in the fifth. His time, he knew, was almost up.Murray had battled valiantly to force that final set, coming back after losing the first two to level the match. He even had looked — briefly — as if he might take command of the fifth set as well before Bautista Agut reeled off five straight games, putting a comeback well out of Murray’s reach.So when the crowd rose to salute him, Murray, tears visible in his eyes, raised his right arm to acknowledge the applause, seeming to accept the fond farewell and his fate. But he was not quite done: He saved one match point and held serve, delaying the inevitable by one game, buying himself a fragment of time.Bautista Agut, the No. 22 seed, served out his victory one game later, closing out a 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-7 (4), 6-2 result after 4 hours 9 minutes.It was the longest match of the first day of the Australian Open, and a fine representation of a dogged career that may be ending soon.Murray, a three-time Grand Slam champion whose ranking has slipped to 229th, has been slowed by a hip injury for more than a year. He said in his pretournament news conference on Friday that he had set Wimbledon this year as his “end point,” and that he could not rule out that this tournament might be his last.“If this was my last match, an amazing way to end,” Murray said in an on-court interview. “I gave literally everything I had.”Murray had made the match more competitive than many expected; while he has been hobbled, Bautista Agut won an ATP tournament in Doha, Qatar, eight days ago. Though his movement was visibly encumbered at times, Murray maintained many of his other gifts, and fought his way through several long rallies with his signature drop shots, giving a crowd that included his mother, Judy, and brother, Jamie, plenty to cheer.“Today I knew it was potentially the last match I play; I don’t care if I damage my hip anymore in the match,” Murray said, “so it’s a bit easier to deal with the pain because I know that I don’t have to hit balls tomorrow.”By the time Murray had joined his former coach Mark Petchey for an on-court interview, his raw emotions seemed to have settled, which almost seemed to catch him off guard.“Actually,” he said, “I think I’m going to be all right.”Despite the finality of his remarks on Friday, and despite the eulogies for his career that had been shared in the days since — including a tribute video from other top players that played as he stood on the court Monday night — Murray left the door open to a return.“I don’t know — maybe I’ll see you again,” he said, drawing cheers from the crowd. “I’ll do everything possible to try. If I want to go again, I’ll need to have a big operation, which there’s no guarantees I’ll be able to come back from anyway. But I’ll give it my best shot.”Murray was referring to a hip resurfacing operation like the one that the doubles player Bob Bryan underwent last year; Bryan is trying to come back this season. In his postmatch news conference, Murray said that he would decide soon between struggling through months of further pain without surgery in order to play Wimbledon as a last hurrah, or to have the surgery with an eye on continuing his career after rehabilitation.Murray said he thought he would make his decision “in the next week or so.”“If I go ahead with the operation and I don’t recover well from it, then I don’t play again — I’m aware of that,” he said. “That is the decision that I have to make. It will improve my quality of life; I’ll be in less pain doing just normal things like walking around and putting your shoes and socks on and things. Just now, going to walk my dogs, playing football with my friends, is like the worst thing I can think of doing. Like, I hate it, because it’s so sore and it’s uncomfortable.”Those cold realities probably will sink in for Murray soon after he leaves Melbourne. But he said he would be O.K. if Monday’s loss was his final match.“If today was my last match, look: it was a brilliant way to finish,” he said. “That’s something that I’ll probably take into consideration, as well. It was an amazing atmosphere. I literally gave everything that I had on the court, fought as best as I could, and performed a lot better than what I should have done without the amount I’ve been able to practice and train.”Murray is known for his indefatigable work ethic, so settling for the less painful option has never been his strong suit.“It’s also been a flaw of mine,” he said. “Some people might say, ‘It’s a positive thing that Andy worked really, really hard, such and such, trained hard.’ But I also often didn’t stop myself when I was being told to do things. I should have sometimes said, ‘No, I’m not doing that today.’ Or: ‘No, I don’t want to train today. I’m sore, I need a day off.’ I didn’t do that. I would always kind of just go along with what I was being told. That was a mistake.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanAn ESPN series covers the two-sport phenom Deion Sanders. And it’s the last day for Netflix subscribers to catch the Coen brothers’ classic “The Big Lebowski” on that platform. 30 FOR 30: DEION’S DOUBLE PLAY 9 p.m. on ESPN. During the past 10 years, ESPN’s “30 for 30” series has covered stories about the world’s most intriguing athletes and sports figures, like O. J. Simpson, Andrés Escobar and Bo Jackson. Jackson appears in this latest installment, which focuses on another two-sport athlete, Deion Sanders, and the 24 hours in 1992 when he attempted to play professional baseball, for the Braves, and football, for the Falcons. The documentary, narrated by the rapper Ludacris, features interviews with former Braves and Falcons players, coaches and sportscasters.TRUCK NIGHT IN AMERICA 10 p.m. on History. At a time when you can find a TV show that focuses on just about any niche topic — pimple-popping, extreme couponing, making cakes poorly — it’s not surprising that there would be one completely devoted to large, customized trucks. The new season of this competition series pits five drivers against one another in monster-truck-rally-style challenges, like climbing mounds of crushed cars or trudging through swamps. The two best drivers will compete to win $10,000, taking their rigs through an obstacle course called the Green Hell.THE BIG LEBOWSKI (1998) on Netflix, Crackle, Google Play, YouTube, Amazon Prime, iTunes and Vudu. Last week, Jeff Bridges (who played the Dude in this movie) teased a reprisal of his cardigan-wearing character in a short clip on Twitter. And by Monday, fans of “The Big Lebowski” got the rest of the footage in the form of a short Super Bowl ad for Stella Artois, featuring the Dude alongside Carrie Bradshaw turning down their usual drinks of choice for the Stellas. Once you’ve had your fill of watching Bridges say “ar-toes,” drink down this original Coen brothers’ classic, if only to remind yourself of just how good it is. It leaves Netflix on Friday.TAG (2018) on HBO’s streaming platforms. Six years ago, The Wall Street Journal profiled a group of adult men in their 40s who, in the past two decades, had kept up a long-running game of tag since high school, flying around the country, hiding in bushes and popping out of car trunks to avoid being “it” for an entire year. By 2018, the incredible true antics had inspired a feature film, starring Jon Hamm, Ed Helms, Hannibal Buress, Jeremy Renner and Jake Johnson. And while the game and its players might seem juvenile, the film also touches on the anxiety that can accompany aging. In his review, The New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote, “The story does wander into a few dark corners of middle age: romantic disappointment; addiction and recovery; the possibility of illness and the inevitability of death.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisThe me too Movement, an advocacy organization that fights sexual violence and harassment, released four short videos on Monday featuring survivors telling their stories.The animated videos — public service announcements that are all about a minute or two long — are each narrated by a survivor of sexual violence as elegant illustrations accompany their voices. (The survivors are not shown.)Words spoken by the narrators are also drawn on screen: “It wasn’t my fault.” “Speak out.” “Hope.” Each video ends with a message to other survivors: “We hear you. We see you. We believe you.”Two of the videos are narrated by women, Emily Waters and Daniela Contreras; Ms. Contreras speaks in Spanish. The others are narrated by men; one is an anonymous 31-year-old and the other is the actor and former football player Terry Crews.After the initial articles about Harvey Weinstein were published in 2017, Mr. Crews accused Adam Venit, an executive at a prominent talent agency, of having groped him. (Mr. Crews refers to the articles in his video, but Mr. Weinstein’s name is bleeped out as if it were a curse.) Mr. Venit eventually resigned and wrote a letter to Mr. Crews asking for his forgiveness.“I will not be shamed,” Mr. Crews said in his video. “I did nothing wrong.”It has been over a year since “Me Too” became a viral hashtag and a force that knocked men who were accused of abuse from positions of power. But the original Me Too movement was started more than 10 years ago by Tarana Burke, and it was her group made that the videos.“These powerful shorts place the focus back where it belongs: the dignity, humanity and healing of all survivors,” Ms. Burke said. “These courageous individuals are not alone and we hope that people around the world see their journeys reflected in the words of these brave individuals.”The videos, which were screened at the Sundance Film Festival on Saturday, were made in partnership with the marketing agency Deutsch. They were released on the me too Movement’s YouTube channel on Monday.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Melina Delkic and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. It’s here.The special counsel, Robert Mueller, delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William Barr.It was the apparent close of an investigation that has captivated the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. We don’t yet know the report’s contents. Mr. Barr will now decide how much of it to share with Congress and, by extension, the public. Above, Mr. Mueller leaving the Capitol in 2017.Mr. Mueller will not recommend that any new charges be filed, a senior Justice Department official said. Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in 2017, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, and dozens of Russians were charged.Find our guides to major moments in the case, and what we already know about the main findings, lines of inquiry and players._____2. The path to the report’s potential release is complicated. The House voted unanimously this month to make its findings public, and now it’s up to Attorney General William Barr, pictured above, to decide how much of it to share.In a letter to congressional leaders, he said he might brief them within days. House Democrats are already calling for the release of not only the full report, but also the underlying documents and findings. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York urged Mr. Barr not to give the White House a “sneak preview” of the report before the public can see it.Watch our video guide to how we got here. Still have questions? Ask our reporters about the latest developments and what may come next._____3. President Trump rolled back sanctions against North Korea today, confusing advisers who had put them in place only a day earlier. The move, announced on Twitter, was a remarkable display of dissension in the Trump administration. The Treasury announced sanctions Thursday on two Chinese shipping companies it said were helping North Korea evade international sanctions.The sanctions came weeks after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, collapsed without a nuclear deal. Above, the two leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, in February.“President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesn’t think these sanctions will be necessary,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary._____4. Indonesia’s national airline wants to cancel a $4.9 billion order of dozens of Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of two deadly crashes.The move would be the first publicly confirmed cancellation attempt since the Ethiopian Airlines crash of a Max 8 that killed 157 people. Above, planes belonging to the airline, Garuda Indonesia.It’s unclear if the cancellation will move forward, as it is difficult to cancel such agreements once they have been signed. Few analysts expect other airlines to follow suit._____5. Stocks fell today as the bond market flashed a recession warning.When long-term yields fall below yields on short-term bonds, it’s called a yield curve inversion. It’s one of Wall Street’s favored predictors of a recession, and these have preceded every recession over the last 60 years. And it happened on Friday.In other business news, Tesla’s sales may have dropped sharply in recent months, after a federal tax credit was reduced, according to vehicle registration data. Above, a Tesla showroom.And one industry is making an unexpected comeback: Paper mills are seeing a resurgence as online retailers like Amazon fuel demand for cardboard boxes._____6. A gatekeeper for recruited athletes applying to the University of Southern California was once known as a stickler for the rules.Now, Donna Heinel, the university’s former athletic department administrator, is accused of being at the fulcrum of the nationwide scandal, conspiring with a private admissions consultant to obtain millions in bribes and then easing two dozen students into U.S.C. on bogus athletic credentials.Ms. Heinel was “as hard as it gets,” a former coach said. She meticulously combed through recruits’ files, clashing with coaches when she found flaws. Above, Ms. Heinel posing with students during a football game in 2016.One of the recruits she appeared to block from admission went to a rival university — and competed in the 2016 Olympics.Elsewhere in California, we traveled to a West Hollywood school where proctors are accused of giving test answers to students. Sign up for California Today for more West Coast news._____7. The world’s largest international police organization is supposed to be a force for safety and security — one that transcends national boundaries and brings together democracies and autocracies.Instead, according to records and interviews across five continents, Interpol prioritized international expansion over safeguards, meaning despots and human rights violators could potentially use the agency to arrest people based on political motivations. Above, Interpol’s headquarters in Lyon, France.A crucial part of the system is the red notice, a kind of warrant in which police officers in one country ask foreign counterparts to make an arrest. When the system works, it helps catch murderers, rapists and sexual predators who cross national borders. But it has also been used to target refugees and dissidents._____8. It’s hard enough being a teenager, balancing rigorous schoolwork with social pressures that are heightened by online platforms.Imagine being one of the few black and Hispanic students at one of the country’s most selective public schools. That’s what the 29 black students — out of 3,300 — at Stuyvesant High School in New York, pictured above, experience.Sarai Pridgen, a 16-year-old sophomore, said she wasn’t surprised when she saw that only seven black students were admitted for the fall. “It was the same wave of disappointment I feel every time I look at the demographics of this school.”_____9. It’s Day 2 of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.No. 1-seeded Virginia rallied out of a deep hole to advance. It was a chance to atone for its unprecedented early exit from the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament, when it became the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16.U.C. Irvine, a 13th seed, upset No. 4 Kansas State. It was the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the Irvine program’s history. Above, the game between U.C. Irvine and Kansas State.Read live updates here.Saturday’s first game will be Maryland vs. L.S.U. at 12:10 p.m., and then Wofford versus Kentucky._____10. Finally, travel changes your life.At least, that’s what Rick Steves, the PBS travel host for nearly two decades, wants you to believe. For The Times Magazine’s Voyages issue, Mr. Steves, pictured above, spoke to our writer about his desire to convert the untraveled, and his role as a sort of spiritual travel agent for America’s middle classes.Our writer asked why he doesn’t ease up on his extensive travel schedule — which occupies him for four months a year. “What would I do if I stayed home?” Mr. Steves said. “Not much. Nothing I would remember.”Have a memorable night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahI have decided to stop watching football given the recent findings about the frequency with which concussions occur and the long-term effects of those concussions on the players. I am not trying to take a stand and change any of my family’s or friends’ opinions, but I do want to feel like I’m doing my part. Can I still follow my team in some way, though? I’m a Jets fan (O.K., maybe I’m not giving up much by not watching), and I really like keeping up with their season. What involvement with the team would be ethical? Can I read up on the team in the newspaper? What if I walk into a restaurant and a game is on television? Is it O.K. if I watch it there? After all, they’ve chosen to play, and maybe I should respect that. Name WithheldA body of research suggests that football causes long-term brain damage in many players. Still, as you point out, the players are in a position to decide for themselves whether they want to run the risks. Those who do well in the sport expect to earn more money and more glory than they would in another endeavor. So you could just think this puts the responsibility on them. If they’re rational, they are, in effect, making the judgment that they are better off playing than not, even with a serious prospect of incurring chronic traumatic encephalopathy (C.T.E.), not to mention other chronic injuries and conditions.That’s not the end of the discussion, though. When it comes to exposing workers to hazards, our views aren’t straightforward. Bureau of Labor Statistics from 2016 show 24,650 nonfatal injuries among construction workers, 28,740 injuries among local law-enforcement officers, 80,180 injuries among those for whom driving is part of their job. If you choose to be a roofer rather than a groundskeeper and accept a greater risk of injury for more pay, we’re O.K. with that. But the reason we have OSHA standards is that we think measures to abate hazards should be taken where feasible. The potential for grievous injury is surely part of why people watch Nascar races; we still expect drivers to use six-point harnesses and flame-retardant suits.It isn’t obvious how this principle should be applied to a game like football. Some think that new high-tech helmets will help; others argue that no helmets at all would be safer, because (as in rugby) it might discourage head collisions. Players spend much more time in practice than in actual games, and some think that practice needs to be reformed to avoid the subconcussive impacts that have been linked to C.T.E. There’s more research to be done, more rethinking of the rules of the game. Players who lower their heads and initiate helmet contact can now be penalized, and maybe there’s a way to expand that penalty category. The existing penalties can certainly be increased and made more of a deterrent. Shortening the preseason could help, too. But if you really care about the welfare of football players, you should want not just to turn your back on bad practices but also to advocate for better ones.A utilitarian, who assesses actions by their effects, would point out that nothing you’re proposing to do contributes to that effort. You can avoid newspaper coverage or screens in sports bars, but given your refusal to urge anyone else to refrain from attending or watching games, that gesture will be undetectable to the football authorities, not to mention sports journalists, and puts no pressure on them. (At least in picking the Jets to follow you’ve made it easier to skip every Super Bowl, from which fate seems to have decided they would be excluded for the past half-century.)But again, that’s not the end of the discussion. Might there be a reason to shun a harmful activity even if doing so won’t have beneficial effects? There are two lines of argument to consider here: one associated with Immanuel Kant and the other with Aristotle. A Kantian test for assessing an action is to consider whether it flows from a principle that you’d have reason to want everyone to follow. Let’s suppose everyone’s boycotting football would lead to swift changes to make the game much safer or even bring the sport to an end. (Here, the utilitarian would note that the end of football might lead to worse lives for those who now play the game at all levels and to the loss not just of a lot of pleasure among fans but also of jobs for commentators, stadium staff, officials and the like.) You can still wonder whether that Kantian strategy of the universalized maxim matters if, in the real world, none of your sports-fan friends are going to follow your lead.One reason to refrain from fandom is simply that you may not want to be the sort of person who takes pleasure in a game that is causing serious and unnecessary harm to its players. An approach to ethics that focuses on what kind of person you are — so-called virtue ethics — is often associated with Aristotle. It tends to judge action in terms of character, rather than the other way around, and you hear its echoes in a familiar formula of reproval: “What kind of person would ... ?”Let me offer a final consideration: In following the game, in joining the culture that sustains football, in its current form, as an American institution, you are not causing harm directly — but you are, in a sense, participating in causing harm. You’ve been enlisted in a collective action that you view with disapproval. In this regard, you can be part of the problem, even if the problem would persist if you weren’t.My husband and I are struggling to conceive. We’ve been seeing a fertility specialist and going through cycles of treatment. We started with oral medications, to which unfortunately I stopped responding. We have since moved on to injectable medications. If this doesn’t work, we’ll at some point have to start thinking about IVF. Though I desperately want to have a baby of our own, I’m struggling with whether it is ethical to go through the rather incredible lengths to get pregnant that IVF requires when there are children who urgently need homes. I know that the cost of adoption, and the difficulty of actually successfully adopting a baby, make it likely as emotionally grueling (and more expensive than) as an IVF cycle. Still, the effort would go to providing a home for a baby who needs one. More pressing is the number of children in the foster-care system. We’ve talked about fostering children in the future, but in our minds that would occur after we’d had some experience parenting. I do not feel that right now we could take on the enormous responsibility of foster care. I do feel we are ready for a baby of our own; children in foster care generally need a great deal more than a new baby does.The bottom line is this: Though I want to have a biological child, and my husband definitely does want to go to IVF if it comes to that, I am struggling to wrap my head around going through so much intervention when we could instead take in a child who needs a home. Am I off base here, or do we have a duty to give homes to children who need them when we can’t easily have children of our own? Name WithheldTaking on a child who already exists and needs a home is an enormously worthy thing to do, if you’re confident that you can bond with him or her and create a loving environment. But you don’t have a duty to adopt one. There are many things we each could do — such as being a parent to one of the hundred thousand or so foster children in this country who need a new family — that would improve the world. But morality doesn’t demand that we do all the good we can. If you had a duty to adopt a foster child, it wouldn’t be enormously worthy, just required.Plenty of couples want to conceive but would choose to have no children rather than adopt a foster child. That’s essentially the position you’re in: You don’t feel prepared to provide foster care. It follows that a child you and your husband might have together wouldn’t be depriving a foster child of a home. And you’re not obliged to remain childless.Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His books include “Cosmopolitanism,” “The Honor Code” and “The Lies That Bind: Rethinking Identity.” To submit a query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. (Include a daytime phone number.)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracySAN JOSE, Calif. — It was 85 degrees in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on Aug. 18, and Nick Saban was feeling the heat.Midway through training camp, many of Alabama’s younger players had not progressed as Saban had hoped. A talented linebacker for the Crimson Tide, the defending national champion, had recently sustained a severe knee injury, and the prior season’s starting right tackle had broken his foot.[Alabama vs. Clemson: Follow our live coverage from the national championship game]“We don’t have enough depth, especially on defense, to afford to be able to lose those kinds of players,” Saban told a group of reporters.Then Saban was asked whether the lack of progress among the more inexperienced players worried him.And that’s when Saban, this era’s most successful college coach and recruiter, snapped. His expletive-tinged remark went viral online.“You just think we, whatever happens, we just” — um, spit — “another player,” he said.“‘Everything’s going to be perfect,’” he added facetiously. “All of our fans think that. You all think that — that’s what you write about, that’s the message you send out there.”Five months later, Saban is one win away from his seventh national title. The No. 1 Crimson Tide (14-0) will face No. 2 Clemson (14-0) in Monday night’s championship game. So in fact, everything has been perfect, or very close to it, with Alabama conjuring new, great players, seemingly out of thin air, whenever they were needed.Of all the work that has positioned Alabama to secure its sixth national title in 10 seasons — recruiting young stars, developing N.F.L.-caliber players, evolving schemes, managing games — the most unheralded might be the program’s extraordinary depth. It stacks top-ranked recruiting classes, one on top of the other, over and over and over, nearly every year.In an era when college football seasons can stretch to 15 games, increasing the risk of injury, and when rules restricting player transfers have been loosened, depth has become the ultimate weapon separating the best from the very good.Somehow, the highest-rated prospects in the land appear to be O.K. with that.“There’s been a major, subtle shift in college football in the last five years that the elite schools are using to their advantage,” said Gary Danielson, a CBS Sports analyst. “Crowded depth charts are no longer a hindrance to recruiting.”Brandon Huffman, the national recruiting editor for 247Sports, a high school scouting site, pointed to Rashaan Evans as a vital precedent. A linebacker ranked No. 1 in his high school class at the position, he forsook offers from elite programs where he would have started immediately and chose Alabama, where he did not start until the College Football Playoff of his junior season. After his senior year, Evans was a first-round N.F.L. draft pick in 2018.Future prospects notice such developments, Huffman said. They see that paying their dues for a couple of years at Alabama and starting only a season or two can be worthwhile down the line.“That,” Huffman said, “is why Alabama does what Alabama does.”Deionte Thompson, a first-team All-American safety who did not start until his junior season, said he had chosen Alabama because he came “from a winning background” and did not want to be “someplace where I was miserable losing.”“I was able to grow so much during the time from me not being a starter to me being a full-time starter now,” he said. “I wouldn’t trade a moment.”Not surprisingly, Clemson, the other dominant program of the College Football Playoff era, also hogs talent, creating depth rivaled only by Alabama’s. At the start of this season, Clemson replaced its starting quarterback, a senior who led the team to a conference title and a playoff berth last season, with a freshman: Trevor Lawrence, who by some measures is considered the highest-ranked recruit ever.“Those top programs, you’re going to have competition,” said Joey King, who was Lawrence’s high school coach in Georgia. “I’ve always been leery of coaches who guarantee them a chance to play. Offer them a chance to compete. That’s what Trevor wanted.”For Saban and Alabama, the most dramatic jettisoning of an established player happened during last year’s national championship game.Held scoreless through halftime, Alabama’s offense trotted out its backup quarterback — a true freshman, no less — to replace Jalen Hurts for the second half. He proceeded to throw three touchdown passes, and the Crimson Tide won in overtime. It was as if Saban had spent the entire season giving minimal playing time to this reserve, a slinging southpaw named Tua Tagovailoa, on a dare.Now Alabama players know that even a two-year starting quarterback like Hurts is not safe, not even in the middle of his second consecutive national championship game. They also know that should Tagovailoa struggle Monday night, Saban will turn to Hurts, as he did during the Southeastern Conference title game last month. Hurts came in for a struggling and injured Tagovailoa and led Alabama to a come-from-behind victory.Because Hurts, a junior, completed his bachelor’s degree last month, he could transfer after this season and play immediately elsewhere. Crimson Tide fans need not worry. The new backups to Tagovailoa, the runner-up for the Heisman Trophy, will most likely include the fifth- and eighth-highest ranked prostyle quarterbacks among high school seniors, including Tagovailoa’s younger brother.Alabama has made countless other substitutions that have barely been noticed, because of how seamless they were.Take the two players whose injuries so agitated Saban in August. The right tackle, Matt Womack, was a rising junior, and his two replacements, Alex Leatherwood and Jedrick Wills, were five- and four-star recruits, ranked first and eighth in their class. They have been useful contributors on Alabama’s second-ranked offense.And Chris Allen’s injury could have depleted Alabama’s depth at linebacker. Except the starting unit is monstrously talented, and the backups include a former walk-on who has been with the program nearly six years, as well as a four-star recruit who is a redshirt junior. As for the future, the freshman linebacker Eyabi Anoma is rated as Alabama’s fourth-best recruit ever (Julio Jones, the Atlanta Falcons’ star receiver, is No. 3).How does Alabama do it? The trick seems to be having no trick at all: telling prospects that they will receive the opportunity only to compete, but not necessarily to play.“He’s not a big promise guy,” Billy Napier, the Louisiana-Lafayette coach who spent four seasons overseeing Alabama’s wide receivers, said of Saban. “He’s very crystal-clear about expectations.”According to Alabama coaches, recruiting this way produces a virtuous cycle. Players are inspired by the knowledge that they will see elite competition not only against other teams 12 or 15 days a year, but also every day in practice.“The amount of work relative to the amount of competition is a huge margin,” Napier said. “There’s a year-round plan for player development, often about how you practice against competition behind or in front of you at your position. Accountability and responsibility goes with that. Here comes a new wave of 45 players every year that are the most talented in the country, so there’s no room for complacency.”Tosh Lupoi, the co-defensive coordinator, said that Alabama “can only put 11 individuals out there. Those individuals are going to be the best players for that specific package.”Fighting to be one of those 11, even more than the games themselves, “is the ultimate stage of competition,” Lupoi added. “And I think that helps us perform on Saturdays.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLoose EndsYou’ll never have to ask “What’s the Super Bowl?” again.By Sarah HuttoMs. Hutto is a comedian who writes for Reductress, McSweeney's and The New Yorker. She's been making daisy chains in the outfield since the late ‘70s.Roller derby is for when you want to get hurt while wearing fishnets, but also go in circles.Horseback riding is for if you never got over getting too big to ride your dog without hurting its back.Football is moshing in shiny pants without music while wearing helmets.Skydiving is for people who sort of want to stay alive, but also sort of don’t.Softball is that thing when you sit in a field, talking to a leaf, before a ball eventually rolls by you and then everyone is yelling for some reason.Baseball was invented by people from Boston who needed something to hit their bats with when they weren’t vandalizing cars.Karate is where you put hyper kids when you’re not ready to put them on medication.CrossFit is what you talk about when your pyramid scheme fails.Archery is for when you like to shoot at stuff, but also can walk up a flight of stairs without getting winded.Hunting is for when you kill your own food, except that most of your food is Cheetos.Golf is that thing when you already died a long time ago, but still want to walk around in the grass insulting your friends.Jogging is how you tell people in cars that you’re better than them, but secretly hate yourself.Bicycling is how you get to work if you’re a 14-year-old cashier, or 40 and had a bad divorce lawyer.Hiking is for when you want to be closer to nature, but also have a TV movie made about you because you died in it.Skiing is like if you only want one bumper sticker on your SUV that you don’t know how to park, but you don’t want to be political, so it just says “Sugarbush.”Hockey is what you take up when you can’t afford anesthesia for a filling.Racecar driving is that thing of drinking water out of a hat during a police chase in a funnel.Snorkeling is for people who like to upset fish, but not kill them.Fishing is for people who like to upset fish, and immediately kill them.Tennis is for couples to take up briefly before finally just going to marriage counseling.Yoga is for telling strangers that you can do missionary position, and also, like, eight of the other ones. (Ten if you have that squishy wedge thingie.)Boating gives you a place to live when you get kicked out of the house for your drinking.Skateboarding is for when you like to scare pedestrians, but also get hit by a car eventually.Surfing is actually pretty kick-ass.Sarah Hutto (@huttopian) is a comedian who writes for Reductress, McSweeney's and The New Yorker.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellThe corruptions of American college sports and the status anxieties of the wealthy have achieved a spectacular commingling, as a federal indictment on Tuesday charged that N.C.A.A. coaches were paid to fix admissions for rich children at elite colleges and universities, like Georgetown, Yale and U.S.C.An entrepreneur devised this ingenious scam less than a decade ago, and it involved multiple fixes, a sort of corruption minuet. Parents with cash to burn could pay to have a test taker sit in on the SAT or ACT in place of their teenagers. And if their children’s grades too were not up to snuff, they could bribe coaches to accept them as fake tennis, soccer and water polo prodigies.The entry price for bribes often ran toward figures that meant this was no scheme for hoi polloi tennis dads. The bribe paying parents were weighted toward well-known actors, financiers and high-end designers. The ringleaders offered an additional service: If parents paid yet more money they could make children believe their test scores were real.[Read more about the actresses, business leaders and other wealthy parents charged in the college admissions scandal.] So the Henriquez family (Manuel, the father, is chairman and chief executive of a publicly traded finance company) conspired to fix their daughter’s SAT, according to federal documents specifying the charges. Then, as the family had its gaze fixed on Georgetown University, they conspired with Gordon Ernst, the school’s tennis coach, to palm off their daughter as a tennis player.She was helped to put together an application that was long on tales of struggle. I’ve played all summer. I grind out three and four hour a day workouts. I have a top 50 ranking in the USTA Junior Girls Tennis, and I’m looking forward to being part of the team and so on and on, and all of it was fabricated. At the end, the college coach simply told the admissions office: “Potential spot.”Over the following year, the Henriquez Family Trust donated $400,000 to a foundation that in turn paid Ernst $950,000 for handling the Henriquez daughter and several other faux tennis recruits.This is splendid work if your olfactory senses are not troubled by the stench of corruption.This scandal has had the salutary effect too of exploding what remains of upper middle class and wealthy self-righteousness about the grubby ways of the college sports in the basketball and football divisions. A year and a half back, F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors arrested assistant coaches and sneaker company fixers and pointed the finger at A.A.U. coaches and coaches who made payments to star players.This, we were told, was unacceptable, a corruption that must be stamped out.Unacceptable in this context meant, I suppose, a working class family and their son accepting $55,000 from an assistant coach at a large university that stands to make millions of dollars marketing their son while legally paying him nothing.The wealthy already engage in much so-called acceptable board-tilting. Rich families routinely make contributions of millions of dollars to elite colleges in hopes of ensuring that admissions offices welcomed their children’s applications. More recently, as this scandal makes clear, families tried to ensure that their sons and daughters would be psychologically evaluated in such a way that allowed them to receive many extra hours to complete high pressure admissions tests to high school and college. It was the genius of this scandal’s mastermind that he found a way to combine that dodge with a subterfuge that allowed ringers to actually take those tests.“Most of these kids don’t even have issues, but they’re getting time,” the ringleader explained to a parent. “The playing field is not fair.”The F.B.I. transcript revealed no parent who protested this accounting. Let’s read the transcript as Gordon R. Caplan, co-chairman of the top law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, talks of fixing his teenager’s test scores.“It’s just, to be honest, I’m not worried about the moral issue here,” he said.This scandal is intriguing for a final reason. There is much gnashing and grinding of teeth these days over admission to elite schools, ranging from preferential admissions for black and Latino students to whether Asian-American students constitute a too large part of the student body.This scandal reminds us that well-to-do families have long known of a back door. As the writer Saahil Desai pointed out in a fine piece for Atlantic Magazine last autumn, sports at elite colleges, from sailing to golf, tennis to lacrosse, are disproportionately filled with the children of the white wealthy. Many of these sports require that families spend upward of $1,000 per month during high school. Some 65 percent of the Ivy League athletes are white, and as the writer noted, this already constitutes a “quiet sort of affirmative action for affluent white kids.”These particular corrupt families used these doors to illegally gain entry for their well-privileged children. That is wrong, but it points to another way in which even well meaning wealthy parents can game the system.“These parents are a catalog of wealth and privilege,” U.S. Attorney Andrew Lelling said Tuesday. “This case is about the widening corruption of elite college admissions.”For once, he might have added, the coaches are but corrupt handmaids.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)If you’ve been following the college admissions scandal, you’ll recall that one of the alleged schemes carried out by William Singer, the figure at the center of the investigation, and the parents he worked for, was faking standardized test results.But if you’ve ever taken a college-entrance exam — with all the attendant security precautions — you may be wondering how that would actually work. My colleague, Jennifer Medina, recently went to a West Hollywood school to find out: On an early morning in June 2017 a teenage girl got on a plane in San Jose and flew to Los Angeles, arriving at a testing center in West Hollywood to take a college-entrance exam.Her parents, Elizabeth and Manuel Henriquez, a Silicon Valley hedge fund manager, had handpicked the testing site.While most students take their entrance exams at large public high schools near their homes, the Henriquezes chose a private institution, the West Hollywood College Preparatory School.It was one of two testing sites where Mr. Singer cultivated relationships with test administrators who would accept bribes, according to court documents. For $10,000 per test, and sometimes more, the documents say, Igor Dvorskiy ensured that students could be given answers from the proctor.Federal prosecutors say that’s what happened when the Henriquezes’ daughter arrived.On a visit this week, nothing at the school suggested it was the site of one of the biggest testing scandals in decades. It is tucked inside a small building of a large old synagogue. The entrance to the school is a solitary white door with a small blue sign emblazoned with its name.The school’s website describes it as offering a “‘cradle-to-college’ education by providing a family-like nurturing academic environment with small class sizes.” Mr. Dvorskiy is listed as the director of the school.The court documents make clear that federal investigators closely monitored the school for several months, tracking Ms. Dvorskiy on the days of the college entrance exams with Mr. Singer’s clients.Typically, Mr. Singer would tell his clients “fabricate a reason — such as a bar mitzvah or a wedding — that their children purportedly needed to take the test in Houston or West Hollywood instead of at their own schools,” according to court documents.“The extent of the fraud that took place at this testing center should be a major red flag to the College Board,” said Alexis Redding, a visiting scholar at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who has studied college admissions. “There has always been tremendous variability in the quality and professionalism of testing sites and that opens the door for cheating to occur. Students tend to know which sites have inattentive proctors or lax policies.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• As college consulting expands and more parents pay for outside advice, what role should high school counselors play? It’s becoming harder to draw the line: One counselor in Irvine estimated that 15 to 20 percent of seniors at his school hired outside help. [The New York Times]• Experts disagree about whether the parents accused of paying bribes to get their children into selective colleges will face time behind bars. They could make deals that would allow them to get community service and probation. Or prosecutors may want to make an example. [The Associated Press]• Powerhouse research institutions in California like U.C. Berkeley and U.C. San Diego are among a growing number that are cutting ties with Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant that has been accused of spying and secretly doing Beijing’s bidding. The company had been a major donor. [The Los Angeles Times]• A U.C. Berkeley student who worked for the Cal football team is alleging she was sexually harassed by coaches and players. The university says it’s investigating the claims, which were first posted on social media. [The Mercury News]• Disney is now, well, the exact opposite of a mouse. With the closing of its $71.3 billion acquisition of 21st Century Fox assets, the Walt Disney Company goes from behemoth to colossus. And it needs to be, in order to stay alive in a world dominated by big tech. [The New York Times]• Now, layoffs have begun at Twentieth Century Fox, and in a surprise move, Disney said it would close Fox 2000, the label under Fox known for mid-budget features like “Hidden Figures,” “Walk the Line” and “The Devil Wears Prada.” [The Hollywood Reporter]• Hi Duk Lee, the businessman who started L.A.’s Koreatown with a restaurant and market that became gathering places for the city’s growing Korean community, has died. [L.A. Taco]• You might be getting bitten by mosquitoes earlier in the season in the Sacramento area. Here’s why. [The Sacramento Bee]• While Facebook and Twitter have promoted efforts to combat misinformation, hate and conspiracy theories, that content has flourished on Instagram meme accounts, where teens and kids are exposed to the ideas through algorithmic daisy chains. [The Atlantic]• In all the debate about affirmative action and admission to elite universities, there’s one group that is consistently forgotten: low-income Asian-Americans. [The Washington Post Magazine]• Anh Do, a Los Angeles Times journalist, grew up bundling editions of the Nguoi Viet Daily News, the newspaper her father founded that both traced and helped build a Vietnamese community in America. After 40 years, she remembers its legacy. [The Los Angeles Times]Now that it’s spring, some of us have gotten colds or the flu or had reactions to allergies. Hopefully you’re not one of them. But even if you’re feeling fit as a fiddle, may this weekend recommendation from Tejal Rao, The Times’s California restaurant critic, bring you comfort: I didn’t know I suffered from seasonal allergies until this week, when pockets of Los Angeles kicked into bloom and a fine layer of yellow pollen settled on my car. Between sniffles and sneezes, I find myself dreaming of one place in particular: Nyum Bai in Oakland.The cup of prahok ktiss, a dip of pork belly and coconut milk, slick with fragrant oil, layered with the flavors of fermented fish paste, would be just the thing to snack on today with a whole basket of crunchy vegetables. And the comforting, balanced broth of the kuy teav phnom penh would make for a steadying dinner.The chef, Nite Yun, is Cambodian, and fled the Khmer Rouge with her family as a child — Mayukh Sen wrote about her and the restaurant here, if you’d like to read more.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIf they’re not held accountable at school, what’s to stop them from becoming the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story once they enter the work force? By Alyssa LeaderMs. Leader is a law student and activist.As a student at Harvard, I reported a sexual assault by a classmate to the university. After a six-month investigation that ended after I graduated, I received a decision from the administrative board. The board voted to “scratch,” a term defined in the administrative board’s handbook. “Nothing wrong occurred,” it reads. “There are no grounds for action.”College students who endure sexual assault and sexual harassment have long been frustrated by anemic responses from their schools, which too often echo that message: “Nothing wrong occurred.” A new rule that Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has proposed — and which the public can comment on through Wednesday —  would make a bad situation even worse by all but demolishing the obligation of schools under Title IX to protect students who experience sexual harassment, including sexual assault. As the #MeToo movement continues to empower survivors of assault and harassment in various professions to speak out, we should worry not only about the effects of this proposed change on campuses, but also about the related price women will pay after graduation. I fear — and research suggests — that the campus predators whom schools fail to hold accountable today may go on to become the abusive bosses of tomorrow.[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.]I have cautiously hoped that the accountability the #MeToo movement has brought to the workplace would trickle into university life. But instead, at the very time people like Harvey Weinstein and R. Kelly have begun to face consequences for their behavior, Ms. DeVos is pushing to roll back the Title IX guidance that assaulted and harassed students depend on to seek justice. Among other changes, her proposed rule would require schools to dismiss all incidents that do not meet an extremely narrow definition of sexual harassment: “so severe, pervasive and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access” to education. As Dana Bolger, a co-founder of Know Your IX, a national youth-led campaign against sexual violence, has pointed out, some courts have ruled that a rape does not meet this standard. The rule would essentially eliminate schools’ responsibility to respond to incidents off campus, which make up 95 percent of sexual assaults of female students, according to the Department of Justice. Moreover, schools would not be legally responsible for addressing any sexual harassment that is not reported to a school official designated to deal with that issue. The overall effect of the proposed rule — which supporters say would restore due-process rights to those accused of sexual assault and harassment — would be to make reporting, already an uphill battle for raped and harassed students, feel even more futile. Carly Mee, who represents survivors of school sexual violence as a senior staff lawyer at SurvJustice, told me, “It is completely illogical that at a time when the public is finally coming to terms with the reality of how prevalent sexual violence is thanks to initiatives like Tarana Burke’s #MeToo movement, the DeVos administration is simultaneously attempting to weaken Title IX protections for survivors.”It’s safe to assume that most perpetrators of sexual violence who have come to public notice through #MeToo didn’t suddenly become abusers after landing jobs in newsrooms and board rooms and on movie sets. Their idea that one can abuse with impunity is learned, and in many cases it is learned where most things are learned — at school. Violent sexual behavior that goes unchecked during college does not reach a natural end at graduation. In fact, many perpetrators of sexual violence are serial offenders: Of men who acknowledge using sexually violent or coercive behaviors, around one in five report committing repeat assaults. Another study found that men reporting a history of sexually aggressive behavior commit, on average, more than six sexual assaults. Examples of school perpetrators who skirted accountability and then offended after graduation are already emerging. Jameis Winston, who was accused of rape as a student at Florida State University and is now a professional football player, reached a settlement with an Uber driver who said he sexually assaulted her in her car in 2016.But the path from perpetrator of school sexual violence to workplace abuser need not be inevitable. Interventions including cognitive behavioral therapy have proved to be highly effective in preventing perpetrators from reoffending. Far from being unfair, responding seriously to perpetrators of school sexual violence is tough kindness. As the world grows increasingly intolerant of violent sexual behavior, early intervention and clear messages about appropriate behavior can prevent perpetrators from reoffending and facing more long-term career, legal and personal consequences.But the first step in effectively intervening must be more, not less, accountability. Ms. Mee suggests that Ms. DeVos should begin by devising policies responsive to school survivors’ needs. “The public conversations going on right now need to translate into action,” Ms. Mee told me. “Those in power have a responsibility to listen to the stories being told and use this momentum to improve the system through which survivors seek justice, not weaken them even further.” If they don’t, they risk emboldening perpetrators who offended in early in life to continue abusing the women in the workplace. I took the unusual step of suing Harvard for its handling of my case and was unsuccessful. The judge dismissed the Title IX claim because of her determination that the university was not “deliberately indifferent.” But as I’ve learned as a student activist, I’m far from alone in my experience of seeing a man accused of sexual assault assured by a college that his actions were not out of bounds — and wondering what that means for the women who will encounter him in the future. While I obtained a restraining order against the man who assaulted me in college, he graduated and got a coveted job, where he’ll only have more and more power as time goes on. While I hope he’ll never become the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story, I am not optimistic. The proposed rules make it even more likely that men like him will leave their college campuses and enter the work force believing they can abuse women and be assured “Nothing wrong occurred.”Alyssa Leader is a second-year law student at the University of North Carolina.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Katharine Q. SeelyeCarrie Ann Lucas, who championed people, especially parents, with disabilities and won a major lawsuit to make Kmart more accessible, died on Sunday in Loveland, Colo. She was 47.Her sister, Courtney Lucas, said the cause was complications of septic shock.Ms. Lucas, who lived with a rare form of muscular dystrophy for three decades, was an effective advocate for people with disabilities. A lawyer, she successfully forced several businesses to make their premises more accessible in accordance with the Americans With Disabilities Act.And last year, through her forceful lobbying, she helped change Colorado law to ensure that the disability of a parent or potential guardian could not be the sole basis for denying custody, adoption, foster care or guardianship of a child.The legislation grew out of her own struggle to adopt her niece, who was in foster care. Ms. Lucas, who used a power wheelchair, breathed through a ventilator, had low vision and minimal hearing, and relied on a feeding tube, went on to adopt a total of four children, all with disabilities.“We hear things all the time like, ‘How can you be a parent if you can’t throw a football for your son?’ ” she told The Colorado Independent in 2016.“As disabled people,” she said, “we are always addressing the issue of how society devalues our lives and experiences.”On Monday, members of both the House and Senate of the Colorado legislature paid tribute to Ms. Lucas and held a moment of silence in her honor. “Carrie Ann Lucas is a testament to doing everything that you can with what you’ve got,” State Senator Julie Gonzales said.Ms. Lucas’s commitment was evident in her relentless campaign against a measure to allow doctor-assisted suicide (sometimes called “right to die” or “death with dignity”) in Colorado. An active member of the disability rights group Not Dead Yet, she appeared at numerous forums to express her outrage at what she saw as the implicit suggestion that people with disabilities had such a low quality of life that their lives were not worth living.Despite her protestations, voters approved the measure in 2016. Doctor-assisted death is now legal in seven states and the District of Columbia.It was a rare defeat in a long career of advocacy. Perhaps her most notable legal victory came in a class-action lawsuit against Kmart, to make its stores more accessible.Ms. Lucas was the lead plaintiff in that suit, filed in 1999, and in a settlement in 2006, Kmart agreed to pay $13 million in damages to shoppers — the largest payout in a disabilities case at the time — and to bring its 1,400 stores into compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act. Kmart agreed to spend as much as $70 million over eight years to do so.Carrie Ann Lucas was born on Nov. 18, 1971, in Twentynine Palms, Calif. Her mother, LaVerne (Rupert) Lucas, was a sales manager; her father, Philip Emory Lucas, served in the Marine Corps for 20 years and was stationed at the base there. When he retired, the family moved to Windsor, Colo., where he was an appliance repair technician.Carrie Ann graduated from high school in Windsor and went to Whitworth University in Spokane, Wash., graduating in 1994 with a double major in education and sports medicine.While in high school, she began to lose muscle strength, and by age 17 she was walking with braces. She was in a wheelchair by her early 20s.Still, she went overseas. She taught middle school science for two years in Saipan, part of the Northern Marianas in the Western Pacific. Her goal was to become a minister, and when she returned to Colorado she earned a master of divinity degree at Iliff School of Theology in Denver in 1999.As her health deteriorated, her sister said, she became involved with the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, which works for equal rights for people with any kind of disability. She investigated and monitored disability rights cases there.At the same time, she sought to adopt her niece, Heather, then 9, the disabled daughter of her half brother, Eric Gover, whose family, in Tennessee, was unable to care for her. But because of her own disabilities, Ms. Lucas ran into resistance.She fought the system and, with the help of a court-appointed special advocate, was able to adopt Heather. The experience inspired her to make sure that the same thing would not happen in Colorado.Driven by the prejudice she saw against parents with disabilities, Ms. Lucas enrolled at the Sturm College of Law at the University of Denver, where she received a full scholarship. She graduated in 2005 and went on to adopt three more children, Asiza, Adrianne and Anthony, all of whom have disabilities.Ms. Lucas was executive director of Disabled Parents Rights and served on the board of directors of the American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado. In 2017, she ran unsuccessfully for a seat on the Windsor City Council.She was among several people with disabilities who were arrested in 2017 on charges of trespassing after a 58-hour sit-in at the Denver office of Senator Cory Gardner. They were protesting the Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which would have reduced Medicaid funding and eliminated services that make it possible for people with disabilities to live independently.In addition to her sister, her half brother and her children, Ms. Lucas is survived by her parents and her partner, Dr. Kimberley Jackson. Her half sister, Kelli Mann, died in 2017.For the last several years, Ms. Lucas had been writing a blog, DisabilityPride.com, which provided an unvarnished view of her life.One of her final entries, the day after Christmas, described her fear of what would happen to her children, now in their late teens and 20s, when she was gone. She said she hoped that she had given them “the tools to thrive if given appropriate supports.” But, she added, she was terrified that they would be separated and lose contact with one another.“My kids are all adopted and lost their first family,” she wrote. “I desperately don’t want them to lose this family too.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHarold Haliday Costain photographs the sugar and salt industries; Karl Haendel creates artistic punch lines; and Lynette Yiadom-Boakye ignites the unexpected.Through Jan. 26. Keith de Lellis Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, Suite 703, Manhattan; 212-327-1482, keithdelellisgallery.com.These days, when an American brand wants to drum up publicity, it offers some free swag to Instagram micro-celebrities, happy to prettify their performed  “real life” with whatever product comes their way. A century ago, it was safer to call up an artist. Harold Haliday Costain (1897—1994), trained as an illustrator, became one of the most adroit commercial photographers of the 1930s — providing American corporations with a bold, modern image that appeared nearly heroic in the years of the Depression.“Sugar & Salt: Vintage Industrial Photographs by Harold Haliday Costain,” at this photography space in the gallery-rich Fuller Building, includes two suites of his crisp, propulsive images of American industry. In 1934, he was commissioned by the International Salt Company to photograph its operations in Avery Island, La.; there Costain turned his camera on an angle to shoot vigorous views of a bare-armed laborer handling a hulking metal wheel, or a pristine metal helix grinding its way through evaporated salt. He also used lamps and spotlights to produce a dramatic view of a worker beneath a towering cliff of salt, so denuded and striated it appears almost like a lunar landscape. The photos of salt ran in the fledgling Fortune magazine; “a white thread through history’s tapestry,” wrote the magazine’s overawed reporter.Costain brought the same high-velocity modernism — skewed angles, high contrast, shifting depth of field — to photographs he took the next year of the facilities of the National Sugar Refining Company in New York and New Jersey. Hundreds of sacks of sugar tower over a worker, recalling levees or even sandbags fronting the trenches of the Great War. A woman on the assembly line looks on beneficently as boxes charge diagonally across the composition. Far from the cautious boosterism of contemporary annual reports, these sugar photos bear a strong resemblance to Soviet photography of the period, by the likes of Boris Ignatovich and Vsevolod Tarasevich. That such similar imagery could advertise such divergent economic systems attests to the slipperiness of photographic style — and to the importance of looking past surfaces, even on the feeds of buffed-to-shine Instagrammers. JASON FARAGOThrough Feb. 16. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, Manhattan; 212-744-7400, miandn.com.A good conceptual art piece is not very different from a joke, and Karl Haendel’s got a million of ’em. His show “Masses & Mainstream,” at Mitchell-Innes & Nash, is a torrent of pencil drawings large and small, and all of them revolve, in one way or another, around the artist’s ability to make anything in the world into a kind of punch line merely by pointing it out.There are old-fashioned gags like “Doorway in a Box,” a framed drawing of a wooden cupboard that sits on two wooden blocks on the floor, and ironic jokes about conceptual art, like the winkingly dumb “Baby With Question Mark.” Jokes that adeptly split the difference include “Richard Nixon’s Childhood Home Annotated by My Daughter” and “Am I Jared Kushner?” The first of these, a meticulous, four-foot-wide drawing of a photograph ornamented with childish doodles, captures the weird disconnect we often feel between public figures and their private lives; the second, simply a cursive list of similarities and differences between the artist and the president’s son-in-law, sounds the very special anger and despair that Mr. Kushner elicits in progressive Jewish men.But it’s the straighter drawings, many of them hugely oversize, that offer the most alluring take on the transformative power of self-conscious looking. In them the viewer has room to appreciate  Mr. Haendel’s relaxed confidence as a draftsman as well as the understated beauty of the found photographs he often uses as source material and of the graphite itself. “Stacked Lawnmowers” pictures four humdrum machines forming an unlikely monolith, and in “Down Box (Football #10),” a dense tangle of football players highlights the sensual appeal of a solid black background. WILL HEINRICHThrough Feb. 16 at Jack Shainman, 513 West 20th Street and 524 West 24th Street, Manhattan; 212-645-1701, jackshainman.com.Lynette Yiadom-Boakye has contributed to the renaissance in painting the black figure and has benefited from it. Her show, “In Lieu of a Louder Love” at both of Jack Shainman’s galleries in Chelsea, follows Charles White’s landmark retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art and a new MoMA publication, “Among Others: Blackness at MoMA,” which includes Ms. Yiadom-Boakye’s work. The game-changing exhibition “Posing Modernity: The Black Model From Manet and Matisse to Today” at the Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University is still on view for a few weeks.Despite this momentum, however, Ms. Yiadom-Boakye, who won top honors at the Carnegie International exhibition last fall, still has room to grow as a painter. Her coffee-brown portraits of fictional people register best as groups, like an arrangement of family portraits. They feature people reading, lounging and resting in traditional poses. Her dark palette and the stillness of the figures gives her work a sense of timelessness that has fast-tracked them into contemporary art history: The work already looks timeworn.The flip side of this, however, is a sense of familiarity and inertness; Her subjects can feel trapped in the canvas rather than liberated by it. The best work here features laughing subjects and a hint of movement. Multiple panels with a female dancer in a white leotard, or a singular canvas with male dancers, suggest something beyond the here and now, a perspective on people, history and looking that you expect painting to elicit.Ms. Yiadom-Boakye’s most impressive effects are weirder though, breaking the ice of her generally conservative approach. When she paints the whites of someone’s eyes in two different hues, or adds a lightning stripe of color along a dark sleeve, she ignites the unexpected. It would be nice to see more of this. MARTHA SCHWENDENERAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEmbracing scouting strategies now common elsewhere and an ambition bigger than its wallet, Racing Club rides a new plan into first place. By Rory SmithAVELLANEDA, Argentina — Partially obscured by a rusting rack of weights, the back wall of the gym at Racing Club’s youth academy has been painted dark blue and daubed with symbols.On one side are four bright, color-coded dots; on the other, four numbered yellow circles. Rising from the floor are two miniature depictions of goal posts, no more than a foot wide; fixed at the top are two hooks, looped with string, a ball hanging from each.Diego Huerta, an assistant at the academy and one of the club’s scouts, walks past with barely a glance, stopping only when he registers the confused looks. At Borussia Dortmund, he explains, the academy boasts a Footbonaut, a futuristic piece of training equipment designed to improve speed of thought and skill of execution. Standing inside a cage, Dortmund players receive a ball every few seconds. Simultaneously, a box on one of the four walls will light up. The player must swivel, fire the ball into the correct box, and then be ready to receive the next pass.Dortmund is one of just two clubs in the world to have one; T.S.G. Hoffenheim is the other. Coaches believe that two or three minutes inside the Footbonaut can have the same impact as multiple training sessions, but it does not come cheap: Each machine costs from $2 million to $4 million, and requires updates to the software that runs it.That price tag is way beyond Racing’s means. It is working with a local software developer on a pared-down, budget-friendly equivalent, but in the meantime, its answer, adapted for the realities and restrictions of the game in Argentina, includes the dots and circles painted on the weight room walls, the soccer balls hanging from strings. “This,” Huerta said, “is our version.”The same ethos is struck through everything Racing does. Like all of Argentina’s traditional powerhouses, this is a club conscious of its history. The walls of the cafe at the academy are lined with images of former stars; half of the room is given over to an extensive timeline of the club’s achievements, from the swath of championships it claimed in the early part of the 20th century to its first Copa Libertadores success, in 1967.That year, it became the first Argentine team to win the Intercontinental Cup, beating the European champion, Glasgow Celtic, over two bad-tempered legs. It has styled itself “el primer grande” — the first of Argentina’s great clubs — ever since.Unusually, though, Racing is not beholden to that history, or content to be swaddled by its traditions. Argentina’s biggest clubs are run as social institutions, in which members vote for presidents every few years. The system is cherished as a bulwark against corporate creep, a way of ensuring that clubs’ identities are not leveraged to the highest bidder, but it can make them cumbersome and conservative, structurally resistant to change.In that context, Racing stands out as a bastion of innovation. It is not just the homemade Footbonaut. It is the support available to the 55 boys who live at the club’s academy, far in advance of what most of their peers in Argentina would be offered, ranging from social workers and psychologists to academic tutors. It is the approach to player development, centering less on results and more on individual progress. Most of all, it is the work done in a small, subterranean office in the parking lot of the club’s stadium.Here, Javier Weiner’s team of four scouts, including Huerta, sits at a bank of four desks, each one dominated by an iMac. The scouts scour games from Argentina’s lower leagues and a handful of South American countries on Wyscout, a content platform that streams action from across the world.Each scout has an area to cover: Weiner takes Argentina and Colombia; Huerta monitors youth soccer and Venezuela.Using the analytics service InStat, they compile dossiers on potential acquisitions, drawing together not just raw performance data but also players’ psychological, emotional and medical backgrounds. They track information from journalists on social media.Most clubs of this scale in Europe, North America and Asia would see this work as standard now; in Argentina, it is all but revolutionary. “Most of the time, it is the head coach who recruits players, or the president, with the help of a few agents,” Huerta said. “There is no process: Everything changes constantly. And there are times when crucial decisions are made by someone who does not know anything about football.”Racing, however, is determined to be “another type of club,” Weiner said. “We have to be creative,” he said. “We have to have a network that means we can get players before bigger clubs because financially we cannot compete with River Plate and Boca Juniors.”The mastermind behind that plan for the future is one of the towering figures from Racing’s past. His image hangs from not one poster, but two, in the hall at the academy.Diego Milito won two Argentine titles with Racing as a player, though most of his success came in Italy, where he was the attacking spearhead of José Mourinho’s treble-winning Inter Milan team. He returned to his boyhood team to see out his career in 2014. After retiring, in 2016, he was appointed Racing’s technical secretary, an equivalent to a director of football role.Milito’s goal, Huerta said, was to “make Racing a champion again.” He is on the cusp of doing just that: Racing sits atop Argentina’s Superleague, a first title since 2014 inching ever closer. Its journey, though, directed by Milito, has been unorthodox.“All the time Milito was in Europe, he saw how they were working, and he tried to adapt some of the ideas he found,” Huerta said. Scouting was central to that. One of Milito’s first appointments was Weiner, who had been working with his father, Gabriel, on his “mobile technical unit”: a freelance scouting operation, effectively, that carried out project work for European and North American clubs. “We had been commissioned by Bayer Leverkusen, Udinese, Chicago Fire and a few others,” Javier Weiner said. A Racing fan, he leapt at the chance to sign up permanently when Milito asked. Huerta’s route was a little different. A journalist by training, he spent four years working at Clarín, Argentina’s biggest news outlet, before starting to work with Martí Perarnau, once an Olympian for Spain and now a prolific journalist, author and the biographer of Pep Guardiola.Huerta’s connection with Perarnau allowed him to visit several of Europe’s most progressive clubs. “I talked to people from Dortmund, Sevilla, Barcelona, Olympique Marseille,” he said. “I went to watch Zinedine Zidane while he was coaching Real Madrid’s reserve team. I had read ‘Soccernomics’ and ‘Moneyball.’ I had some ideas on how to run a club.”He started doing video analysis and statistics work for Racing. When Milito arrived, he spotted Huerta’s gift for languages and recruited him into his inner circle. He now acts as a bridge between the scouting operation, the first team and the academy. “We did not have a structure before,” Huerta said. “Now we have a clear vision of what we want the club to be.”The best parallel he can find is with one of those clubs he visited on his tour of Europe: Sevilla, a team that has built sustained modern success among much bigger rivals by recruiting well and selling better.Racing has always had a reputation for youth development — the club is known, in Argentina, as La Academia — and that remains central to Milito’s plan. In his office at the academy, Huerta keeps a map of all the areas of Argentina where he has searched for talent.There has never been any shortage of that, of course — “Switzerland knows how to make watches, and we make players,” the grizzled academy director Miguel Gomis said — but there is a belief, too, that it can be done more effectively, more reliably.“We do not see the mistakes we make because no matter how badly we do things, players come through,” Gomis said.There is a focus, now, not on “training talent” — the endless slew of creative, attacking players that Argentina is famous for — but on “positions of concept,” the more defensive, more cerebral roles. “We want to create the players that Racing needs,” said Claudio Úbeda, a coach at the academy. “But also the players that Europe wants.”Racing is looking further afield than any of its rivals for that raw material. It is, Huerta said, often the only Argentine team that sends scouts to international youth tournaments. It has started to recruit players from Colombia, Peru and Venezuela.Just as significant, it has “formalized,” as Weiner put it, the other end of the process. “I remember seeing a couple of tall, blond guys in the crowd at one game,” Weiner said. “It turned out they were scouts from F.C. Copenhagen, in Denmark. There was nobody to help them get tickets to watch a player, so they just ended up behind the goal. We have changed that now.”So new that there remains some suspicion about it. The concept of scouting remains alien to some. Huerta is regularly asked by colleagues from other teams why he is bothering to watch lower tier games or follow players from Venezuela. There are skeptics within the club, too; Milito’s revolution has not been entirely peaceful. Change does not come easily, even with such a potent figurehead. The team he has built, though, has the courage of its convictions. Racing can see the future; or its own, homemade version of it, at least.Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.  @RorySmith AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — President Trump, seeking to shore up his base of support in rural America, promised farmers on Monday that “the greatest harvest is yet to come” and insisted that the pain they were experiencing from his economic policies would ultimately make them better off.In a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation at its annual convention in New Orleans, Mr. Trump asked farmers to be patient as he tried to rewrite trade agreements with China, Europe, Canada and Mexico and as he battled with congressional Democrats over immigration.The president’s policies have caused problems for the farming industry, which was already struggling with higher commodity costs, stiff retaliatory tariffs and loss of access to some markets as a result of Mr. Trump’s trade fight with other nations. Farmers are now dealing with a freeze on certain types of government-backed loans, subsidy payments and other federal services as a result of the protracted partial government shutdown, which has entered its fourth week.“No one understands better than our great farmers that the tough choices we make today reap rewards for centuries to come,” Mr. Trump said.In a stemwinder that touched on immigration policy, news media criticism and the importance of standing for the national anthem at football games, Mr. Trump told farmers that the benefits of trade deals that have not been finalized were already being realized.In reality, the president’s trade agenda remains in flux, and he has yet to secure pivotal trade agreements with Europe, Japan, China and other countries that could determine whether he is able to keep his pledge to enrich the United States’ agricultural workers by cutting better deals.On Monday, Mr. Trump painted a rosy picture for farmers who are facing a difficult year ahead as the American economy faces a slowdown and as an array of complicated trade negotiations remain unresolved.Mr. Trump declared that his talks with China were going well, that farmers would soon see open access to China’s vast market and that they would be protected from what he described as efforts by the Chinese to illicitly acquire their intellectual property for seeds and other products. The scope of any China deal remains murky, however, as deep divisions remain between the two countries, which face a March 2 deadline to reach an agreement. Failure to broker a deal would cause the Trump administration to raise tariffs further on Chinese imports, escalating a trade war that has already rattled markets and provided a drag on the global economy.The president also praised his get-tough approach with Europe, explaining that he was in the process of overhauling a trade relationship with the European Union that he said was unfair because it did not allow American farmers to sell enough chicken, cheese, beef and other agricultural products to European countries.“They treat our farmers terribly,” Mr. Trump said, trumpeting his lack of popularity in Europe. “They don’t want your product.”Yet despite the suggestion that his approach would secure more access to Europe for American farmers, Europe’s top trade negotiator, Cecilia Malmstrom, made clear to American officials last week on a visit to Washington that any trade agreement would be limited to industrial goods. The European Union’s member states have not given her the authority to negotiate new terms for agricultural products, a limitation that could prove to be a deal-breaker in any new trade treaty with the United States.The president is also facing resistance at home to the revised trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, which is critical to American farmers. Mr. Trump said that the deal, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, was a boon for American dairy farmers, who would soon face fewer restrictions when selling products into Canada. But the agreement has yet to win congressional approval, and Democrats who now control the House have made clear they are not ready to rubber-stamp the agreement without significant changes.The government shutdown has only exacerbated anxiety among farmers. The trade war had already reduced American farmers’ access to China, a critical market for soybeans, farm equipment and other products, and the industry is struggling with retaliatory tariffs from Europe, Canada and Mexico.To help cushion the blow, Mr. Trump created a $12 billion bailout fund to compensate farmers hurt by the trade war. But that program is on hiatus and payouts are delayed because the Agriculture Department is not being funded during the shutdown.Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for the situation and defended his position that he should not approve funding for the government until lawmakers agree to build a wall along the southwestern border, which he said was essential for keeping the country safe. He did draw applause at one point for striking a softer tone on immigration and insisting that he wants to make it easier for farmers to hire and keep immigrant workers.Even though Mr. Trump professed his love for farmers, his urban roots were at times hard to conceal. The president acknowledged his ignorance about wheat policy when explaining that Canada would soon grade American wheat the same way it grades its own.“Which to me doesn’t mean much,” he said, “but to farmers it means a lot.”At another point, Mr. Trump celebrated his efforts to ease the regulatory burden that farmers face, noting that he rolled back a rule that penalized farmers for having prairie potholes on their land.“Do you all know what prairie potholes are?” he asked a laughing audience. “I don’t, but it sounds bad.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWord of the DayBy The Learning Network1. a person who for some reason is not wanted or welcome2. a diplomat who is unacceptable to the government where assigned_________The term persona non grata has appeared in 30 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Sept. 26 in “Nike Nearly Dropped Colin Kaepernick Before Embracing Him” by Julie Creswell, Kevin Draper and Sapna Maheshwari:Kaepernick ignited a national discourse in 2016 when he began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem before games to protest racism, social inequality and police brutality. He left the 49ers after the 2016 season and became a free agent, but executives throughout the N.F.L. considered him radioactive because of his on-field protests, which drew vocal criticism from President Trump, and no team signed him.That left Nike’s sports marketing group flummoxed. There seemed to be little they could do with a lightning-rod professional football player who was not playing football.… So when Wieden & Kennedy, Nike’s ad agency for more than three decades, urged the company earlier this year to make the N.F.L.’s ultimate persona non grata the face of its “Just Do It” 30th anniversary campaign, Nike had to weigh the potential repercussions._________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by5 PlacesThe NCAA Final Four basketball tournament is in town, and the local chef Brenda Langton serves up five new spots in the Downtown East neighborhood just four blocks away. By Elaine GlusacFrom Downtown East in Minneapolis, it’s only a four-block walk to the U.S. Bank Stadium, the glass-sheathed building that opened in 2016 and is host of the NCAA Final Four basketball tournament from April 6 to 8. The neighborhood is seeing action of its own lately. Beautiful warehouses converted into condos, along with tasteful shops and restaurants, are filling in the once-industrial area. Brenda Langton, the chef and owner of the organic and locally focused Spoonriver restaurant and the founder of the Mill City Farmers Market, both in Downtown East, has seen it all. “It’s a very diverse neighborhood and people come from all over to walk the riverfront in the evening when the lights really make it shine,” she said. Ms. Langton, who was nominated for best restaurateur in 2019 by the James Beard Foundation, shares five new spots in the bustling area.The chef Jamie Malone was last in the neighborhood at the Sea Change restaurant in the Guthrie Theater. Now she’s back at Eastside, turning out oversize dishes like whole roasted duck and pork-stuffed bass for sharing. “I’m so pleased Jamie and her professional team are close by again,” Ms. Langton said. “She throws herself into her work 110 percent and it certainly shows.”305 Washington Avenue South; eastsidempls.comIn addition to a publisher, performance hall and papermaking classes, this literary arts center houses the independent Milkweed Books. “I love, love, love this place,” Ms. Langton said. “The bookstores of our world are dwindling but Open Book makes a real home for literary and book arts.”1011 Washington Avenue South; openbookmn.orgBuilt in 1935 for the Minnesota National Guard, the Armory, a buff-colored stone and brick structure with a vaulted roof, has long been a local landmark. It was once home to the NBA Minneapolis Lakers and the setting for the “1999” music video from Prince, who was a native of Minneapolis. Last year, it reopened as an events venue. “It’s a unique building,” Ms. Langdon said, adding that at 8,400 seats, “it’s a great size for a concert.” Catch footage of Prince projected on the big screen, accompanied by live music, on April 26.500 South 6th Street; armorymn.comSometimes called the Mill District for the flour mills that fronted the river, Downtown East is newly home to this 183-room hotel housed in an early 1900s brick factory, which still has its terra cotta ornaments. “I was so thrilled this building was preserved,” Ms. Langton said. “The juxtaposition of the old buildings with the modern Guthrie here is just beautiful.”708 Third St. South; canopy3.hilton.comFounded in southern Minnesota in 1865, this mill weaves sturdy wool blankets for a new generation of fans of the retro brand, and recently opened its first shop in Downtown East. “I’m thrilled they’re in the neighborhood,” Ms. Langton said, calling the blankets “classic, high quality and warm.”1029 South Washington Avenue; faribaultmill.comFollow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe victory over the Chiefs means Tom Brady and Co. will be playing for the title for the ninth time in the last two decades. By Bill Pennington and Benjamin HoffmanAs Tom Brady led the New England Patriots down the field in the crucible of overtime, there was a familiar sense of inevitability, an atmosphere that was both tense and predictable. These were only the latest minutes in a cavalcade of triumphant overtime postseason Patriots moments that stretch from a snowy game in 2002 to the one played in frigid conditions here Sunday night.More of Brady’s passes failed than succeeded in the overtime period against the Kansas City Chiefs, but all the ones that mattered most were reliably rifled into the arms of his receivers. As the Patriots neared the Chiefs’ goal line, a winning touchdown and a ninth Patriots Super Bowl appearance this century seemed preordained.When running back Rex Burkhead pushed into the end zone with the game-ending touchdown in the Patriots 37-31 victory, Brady began jumping up and down as he turned toward his team’s sideline.In the Patriots’ locker room a short while later, New England wide receiver Julian Edelman, who caught two overtime passes from Brady, said of his quarterback: “There’s no one I’d rather have in two-minute drill than No. 12. It’s in his DNA. He has a clutch gene.”Brady, meanwhile, focused elsewhere.“I’m so tired,” he said. “That was a hell of a game.”The Patriots have played in many such games. In almost every season this decade they stumbled enough that it appeared the long run at the highest level of success must surely be nearing its expiration date. And then there’s another game like Sunday when the Patriots, despite squandering a first half lead, nonetheless held off one of the most potent offenses in the N.F.L. to persevere and qualify for their third consecutive Super Bowl and fifth in the last eight years.New England will play the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII on Feb. 3 in Atlanta — which happens to be the 17th anniversary of New England’s Super Bowl victory over the Rams, who were then based in St. Louis.After a fourth quarter that featured five touchdowns from both teams, the Patriots received the football first in overtime. Brady twice pierced the Chiefs defense with dart-like throws on third down to Edelman to keep the drive alive. Soon the Patriots were at the Kansas City 30-yard line, but two Brady throws — one on a flea-flicker — fell incomplete.On third down, Brady rifled a pass to tight end Rob Gronkowski for 15 yards. Burkhead then carried the football on three successive plays, with the last ending the game.“Overtime, on the road against a great team — they had fight, they had no quit,” Brady said of the Chiefs in an interview with CBS after the game.The Patriots, who ran twice as many plays as the Chiefs did on Sunday, had taken a 24-21 lead late in the fourth quarter on a drive aided by a roughing-the-passer penalty and an 11-yard, one-handed reception by New England wide receiver Chris Hogan. On 4th-and-1 from Kansas City’s 10-yard line, Sony Michel, who had 113 rushing yards, burst through the middle, giving his team a lead with just 3 minutes and 32 seconds left to play.The Chiefs responded quickly, regaining the lead in five plays and less than 90 seconds when a pass interference penalty and a 38-yard pass to wide receiver Sammy Watkins led to a 2-yard touchdown run by Damien Williams.With just over two minutes to play, Brady got the ball and marched his team down the field, with Burkhead bulling into the end zone to put New England ahead, 31-28, with 39 seconds left in the game.Quarterback Patrick Mahomes coolly led the Chiefs back, going 48 yards in just two plays, and with 11 seconds remaining, Kansas City’s kicker, Harrison Butker, sent the game into overtime with a 39-yard field goal that tied the game, 31-31.Kansas City had trailed by 14-0 after the opening two quarters — the first time since Coach Andy Reid took over the team in 2013 that the Chiefs had failed to score in the first half — but the team came out for the third quarter invigorated, scoring a touchdown less than two minutes into the half.It was the Patriots who looked more energized amid frigid temperatures at first. New England opened the game with a 15-play, 80-yard masterpiece of precision and versatility, consistently confusing the Chiefs’ defense and keeping it backpedaling for more than eight consecutive minutes of playing time.The tone of the opening drive was set on the first New England play from scrimmage, when Michel sliced through a gaping hole in the middle of the Kansas City front line for an 11-yard gain.The Patriots stuck to the ground to convert on essential third down plays behind all-purpose running back James White.The Chiefs linebackers began sneaking toward the line of scrimmage, and Brady saw them, changing a play in a pre-snap read and throwing over the middle to Edelman for 14 yards.And so went the cat-and-mouse game, with White’s backfield mate Michel dashing for 11 yards to Kansas City’s 5-yard line. Three plays later, from the 1-yard line, behind crushing blocks by Gronkowski and fullback James Develin, Michel leapt into the end zone for a 7-0 New England lead.After the Chiefs lost six yards on their initial possession, the Patriots’ next drive, which began in Chiefs territory, was nearly as efficient.White plowed through holes in the Chiefs’ defense, and a well-timed shovel pass in the backfield to wide receiver Cordarrelle Patterson gained 15 yards. Edelman caught another pass and soon the Patriots were a yard from the Kansas City goal line again. But on a third down, Brady faked a handoff, bent at the waist to hide the ball and popped up and lofted a quick pass toward the 6-foot-6 Gronkowski breaking across the middle.Brady did not see Chiefs linebacker Reggie Ragland standing in the path of his throw. Ragland made the interception and the Chiefs narrowly avoided falling behind by two touchdowns.But when the Chiefs went on offense, they continued to look out of sync and frustrated. The Patriots were successfully pressuring Mahomes, forcing him to flee the pocket and rush his throws.The Chiefs offense had only one first down near the midpoint of the second quarter when the Patriots appeared to have Mahomes corralled for a sack on a third down play. Mahomes instead slipped a tackle and fired a 12-pass to Watkins.On the next play, the Chiefs’ fastest player, Tyreek Hill, got behind his defender for a 42-yard reception. Suddenly, it was the Patriots defense that seemed to be unsteady, especially on the succeeding play when Williams, the Chiefs running back, was left uncovered as he ran a pass route into the New England end zone.In a costly mistake, Mahomes overthrew the wide open Williams. A sack of Mahomes eventually moved the Chiefs, who would gain just 32 yards offensively in the first half, out of field goal range.On their final possession of the second quarter, Brady connected with White on a 30-yard pass to bring the Patriots within striking distance of the Kansas City end zone. On a second-and-one, Brady pumped faked to his left to draw in Chiefs cornerback Steven Nelson as Patriots wide receiver Phillip Dorsett streaked down the sideline to haul in a 29-yard touchdown pass that gave the Patriots their 14-0 lead at intermission.[The Los Angeles Rams beat the New Orleans Saints, 26-20, in the N.F.C. championship game earlier Sunday, and will face the winner of this game in the Super Bowl. See how they did it here.]Here’s how the Patriots beat the Chiefs, by Benjamin Hoffman:Rex Burkhead surged in from two yards out to get the Patriots a 37-31 victory in overtime, before the Chiefs ever got a chance to possess the ball.Thirty nine seconds was plenty of time for Patrick Mahomes. The second-year quarterback took his team 48 yards on a pair of long passes, and while he wasn’t able to throw a touchdown pass on his third attempt, he had gotten his team close enough for Harrison Butker to tie things up with a 39-yard field goal.New England will have just 8 seconds and this game is almost undoubtedly headed to overtime.This game has lived up to expectations. Rex Burkhead blasted through the middle for a 4-yard touchdown run and the Patriots, who seemed all but done in this game, are now leading 31-28 with just 39 seconds remaining.New England went 65 yards on six plays and survived what appeared to be a Kansas City interception that was overturned as a result of a penalty.For Mahomes there is never a down or distance too far to rule him out, but he has a long way to go with almost no time to do it.Damien Williams raced up the middle for a 2-yard score, putting the Chiefs up by 28-24 with 2:03 left in the A.F.C. championship game.The Chiefs’ drive went 68 yards in five plays, and while it had many key moments for the Kansas City offense, it was far more about mistakes by the New England defense, and J.C. Jackson, a rookie defensive back, isn’t going to be very popular if the Patriots lose this game.Earlier in the drive, Travis Kelce had lost control the of the ball, and Dont’a Hightower had recovered, giving the Patriots the ball and the lead with just over 3 minutes remaining. A late flag came out, and a defensive holding penalty on Jackson had instead given Kansas City a first down.It was just two plays later that Jackson committed a brutal pass interference penalty that gave Kansas City 23 yards.Tom Brady now has two minutes, and the Patriots need a touchdown.Not content to let the Chiefs steal the game, New England marched 75 yards down the field, with Sony Michel barreling his way into the end zone for a 10-yard touchdown run. With the extra point, the Patriots are now back on top, 24-21 with 3:32 remaining in the game.Kansas City’s defense had tightened up considerably on its last few tries, but this time around they once again fell prey to a series of short grinding plays by the Patriots. On top of that, New England was able to take another 4:13 off the clock, extending its lead in time of possession to 37:35 to Kansas City’s 18:53.The drive was impressive overall, but on what is proving to be a rough day for officiating — especially in New Orleans — New England’s drive was extended by an extremely questionable roughing the passer penalty against Chris Jones. The play, in which Jones reached over Brady’s shoulder and tapped his shoulder, was ruled on by an official who was out of position to see what type of contact was made between Jones and Brady.The Chiefs have taken the lead.Given the ball in New England’s territory, Patrick Mahomes needed just two plays to put his team on top, 21-17, with a 23-yard catch-and-run to Damien Williams in which the running back took a floater of a pass from Mahomes and sprinted past the entire Patriots defense on his way into the end zone.Mahomes is up to three touchdown passes in the second half, and this time he capitalized on a Tom Brady mistake — the interception to Daniel Sorensen — to give his team its first lead.In a wild turn of events, the Chiefs lost a turnover thanks to a replay review, but then got the ball back thanks to an interception by Daniel Sorensen.It had briefly looked as if Kansas City had recovered a muffed punt. A lengthy replay review determined the ball never made contact with Julian Edelman’s hands, giving New England the ball at its own 28-yard line.The various replays appeared to show the ball clear Edelman’s hands, despite some odd movements in his thumbs.Considering the Chiefs had come up with a huge stop on 4th-and-inches on New England’s previous drive, the muffed punt was pushing the momentum of the game decidedly in Kansas City’s favor. While having to give the ball back had to be a blow to morale, Sorensen’s interception got the Chiefs right back into it.Patrick Mahomes threw four touchdown passes in the second half of the Chiefs’ loss to the Patriots in Week 6, and he’s already up to two in the second half of this game. His latest, a 1-yarder to Damien Williams, has Kansas City trailing New England, 17-14.The scoring drive went 75 yards on nine plays, with the biggest highlights coming on a 33-yard catch-and-run by Williams, and a brutal pass interference penalty in which New England’s J.C. Jackson mugged Travis Kelce in the end zone, setting the Chiefs up with a 1st-and-goal from New England’s 1-yard line.On top of those plays, Mahomes showed some toughness on the drive, stepping out of the way of a sack attempt and racing for a 9-yard gain, plowing into Patrick Chung at the end of the play, and then picking up a first down on a sneak up the middle.A few plays later, Mahomes saved the drive yet again with a sidearm throw to Sammy Watkins for a first down. The play after that was the huge run down the sideline by Williams in which the running back spun his way down the field past New England defenders.The touchdown seemed all but inevitable once the Chiefs reached the red zone, but the pass interference call against Jackson made it nice and easy for Mahomes to roll out and hit Williams with the short pass.The Patriots’ lead is up to 10 points after Stephen Gostkowski connected on a 47-yard field goal attempt.New England had to go just 8 yards to set up the score after having held tight against Kansas City’s offense with the Chiefs backed up inside their own 5 to start their previous drive. As a result, New England started the drive on the 50-yard line.The Chiefs’ defense acquitted itself fairly well on the latest scoring drive, holding tight on a 3rd-and-17, but thanks to the short field that didn’t matter.In what could be turning into a game of field position, the Patriots may have just given themselves a big advantage despite the teams having traded punts.Kansas City failed to do anything on its second possession of the second half, with Patrick Mahomes and his teammates going just 4 yards on five plays. But the drive had started at Kansas City’s 4-yard line thanks to a brutal sequence in which Tyreek Hill cost himself around 12 yards by running backward in hopes of finding a seam to exploit, and a blocking penalty tacking on another 3-yard loss.As a result, New England will be getting the ball at the 50-yard line, still up 14-7.Kansas City wasted no time getting on the scoreboard in the second half, needing just 2:04 to get a 12-yard touchdown pass from Patrick Mahomes to Travis Kelce. The Chiefs now trail, 14-7.Things started slowly, with Damien Williams picking up a combined 8 yards on a short reception and a short run. But Mahomes saw an opportunity to do some damage on third down, and he rolled out to his right before launching the ball downfield to Sammy Watkins for a 54-yard reception that caught the Patriots’ second sleeping.Clearly energized by the play, Mahomes threw aggressively to Kelce in the end zone, and as he has done so many times before, Kelce was able to control the ball in traffic and reward his quarterback’s faith.A mostly quiet first half ended with the Chiefs going out meekly, as Patrick Mahomes momentarily lost the ball on a strip-sack fumble before he recovered it and simply knelt on the ball to send his team to the locker room, down by 14-0.While the score is still relatively close, New England has dictated the tone of the game. The Patriots have exploited the Chiefs’ front-seven with a series of short passes and runs — not allowing Kansas City’s top pass-rushers any time to get to Tom Brady — and New England’s defense has mostly contained the Chiefs’ offense.That has resulted in a huge disparity in playing time, with New England’s offense holding the ball for 21:07 compared to 8:53 for the Chiefs.There was a brief glimpse of what Mahomes is capable of on two completions in the second quarter in which he was able to deal with the New England pass-rush and find his receivers deep downfield, but that drive produced nothing after a sack pushed Kansas City out of field goal range.Beyond those two throws, Mahomes’s passes have been off the mark, and Damien Williams has gotten nowhere with the running game. The Chiefs were outgained, 245 to 32, in total yardage.This year’s Chiefs scored the third-most points in N.F.L. history, so it is hard to declare them out of any game they play regardless of the score. But Kansas City Coach Andy Reid will need to heavily adjust his strategy on both sides of the ball if he wants to get back into the game.In the one small bit of good news for the Chiefs, they will receive the ball to start the second half.The second quarter had nearly ground to a halt thanks to a series of punts, but New England woke up in the final minute of the first half, with Tom Brady finding Phillip Dorsett for a 29-yard touchdown reception that, along with the extra point, has New England up, 14-0.The Patriots’ latest long drive went 90 yards on eight plays and has left Kansas City with just enough time to run one or two plays — or kneel on the ball — to end the half.The Chiefs’ defense, after failing a series of tests to start the game, came up huge on 3rd-and-goal, with Reggie Ragland intercepting Tom Brady’s pass attempt to Rob Gronkowski, thus stealing some momentum back for Kansas City.Up until that point, the Patriots had seemingly been doing anything they wanted, using runs and short passes to expose a front-seven that is good at rushing the passer but far worse at putting up with the quick hits that the Patriots can accomplish with their small wide receivers and their talented group of running backs.In all, the drive went 43 yards on 11 plays, but the Chiefs were able to escape, still trailing by 7-0.New England had gotten the ball back quickly thanks to a fairly inept first drive by the Chiefs’ offense in which Kansas City generated minus-6 yards as a result of a sack of Patrick Mahomes that came after he had his first two pass attempts of the game fall incomplete. The only positive movement of the drive for the Chiefs came thanks to a 5-yard run by Damien Williams — which he followed with a 2-yard loss — and a 5-yard penalty by the Patriots’ defense.Now Mahomes will get a second chance to show what he can do.It was clear coming in that this game would be a tough test for the Chiefs’ defense, and the unit looked almost helpless on an opening drive by the Patriots in which New England marched 80 yards on 15 plays, punching the ball into the end zone on a 1-yard run by Sony Michel.The seemingly endless drive chewed up 8 minutes 5 seconds of the first quarter and has Kansas City on its heels.The Patriots got off to a quick start on an 11-yard run by Michel, and proceeded down the field through a combination of short passes — Rob Gronkowski had two catches on the drive after having just one all game last week — and runs by their three-headed monster at running back (Michel, James White and Rex Burkhead).In all, Brady threw for 38 yards and the running game contributed 42.AdvertisementA year ago, he had a few songs up on SoundCloud; now his song “Thotiana” is a Top 10 hit. But Blueface knows music is only part of the job.Blueface takes a selfie while performing at the Gothic Theater in Colorado. The 22-year-old rapper was nearly unknown a year ago.CreditCreditBenjamin Rasmussen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaENGLEWOOD, Colo. — For Blueface, everything is still new, and a little surprising. A couple of weeks ago, he was paid $20,000 to perform two songs at the opening of a boutique. When he asks women in the crowd at concerts to lift up their shirts, they oblige. Recently, seated in first class on a flight, he ran his phone camera over the sea of other people in cushioned seats, smiled and implored his viewers to “say hello to all my Caucasian friends.”When the 22-year-old rapper born Johnathan Porter posts these happenings on his Instagram story, he often gives the camera a little flat-affect eyebrow-raise, a Jim Halpert out in the hip-hop wilds.The unlikely and wild moments are arriving ever more quickly these days, now that Blueface has catapulted from local Los Angeles rap notoriety to national ubiquity thanks to his single “Thotiana,” which recently reached No. 9 on the Billboard Hot 100. The slow-tempo bacchanal full of nearly whispered boasts was originally released last summer, but has recently exploded: first as a viral sensation with accompanying dances, and lately via a couple of remixes — one, with YG, to bolster its street authority, and a second, with Cardi B, to ease its path into pop ubiquity.By December, when Blueface signed a distribution deal for his first mixtape, “Famous Cryp,” with Entertainment One Records, it was already notching between 5 and 7 million streams a week, according to Nielsen Music. Alan Grunblatt, the label’s president of urban music, said “Thotiana” was poised to be the most successful song he’s worked on since Bone Thugs-n-Harmony’s No. 1, double-platinum “Crossroads.”“Getting to this point probably took about 25 percent music,” Blueface said, verging on unimpressed, at his Denver hotel on a quiet afternoon in between shows in Colorado Springs and Englewood late last month. The rest, he noted laconically: “Marketing, promotion, being yourself.”Unlike most rappers, he openly describes Blueface as a character. “Blueface is probably 10 times Johnathan,” he said. “Every rapper, I don’t give a [expletive] what they tell you, they got two different personalities — they not like that when they at home.” In a genre that’s long been burdened with the expectations of authenticity bumping up against the dictates of entertainment, such candor is refreshing, and utterly reasonable.As rising-star origin stories go, this is rather unromantic, but telling of the times. Blueface is, perhaps above all, a first-rate character actor of the meme era, right down to the tattoo of Benjamin Franklin that creeps from his right ear all the way to the middle of his cheek. If you watch closely, you can see Blueface leaning into the theater of it all. He’s honed a few signature moves that he breaks out at every show: moistening the tips of his pointer finger and pinkie in his mouth, then smoothing out his eyebrows; grabbing a mop and putting it to work during “Bleed It”; pouring water over himself somewhere in between “Freak Bitch” and “Thotiana.” And then there’s the dance — the comically sexual bust down, in which he yanks at the waistband of his pants while studiously gyrating. Always, the look on his face is part rough-edged heartthrob, part can-you-believe-this?What makes Blueface’s ascendance even more intriguing is that his flow is deeply unorthodox. On the skeletal but urgent “Famous Cryp,” his arrangement of words often bears only a passing relationship to the beats he’s rapping over. His syllables can be arrhythmic, and the conclusions of his lines fall over the end, like Wile E. Coyote zooming past the edge of a cliff, legs still pumping. At times, he suggests the embryonic Los Angeles gangster rap of the late 1980s, or even vocal eccentrics like E-40 and Suga Free. But his approach feels novel and raw, not hyperstylized. Debates about rap’s generational crisis — agonizing over younger rappers less concerned with the work of rhyme than their elders — have by now become frequent and tiresome, but Blueface’s music has spawned the unusual circumstance of people actually debating about art, rather than presentation. (“In Defense of Blueface” read one Pitchfork headline.)A YEAR AGO, Blueface had just a few songs up on SoundCloud; now, he’s at the dawn of his mainstream ascendance, meaning that to some, he’s a cause for excitement, and to others, a cause for concern. In Colorado Springs, during a jovial set for a couple hundred enthusiasts, he did the mop thing, the eyebrow thing, the bust down. Some women lifted up their tops, and he filmed them. At the end of the night, he noticed two small children by the foot of the stage, and brought them up. How old were they? Nine and 11, they replied. A mischievous look came over his face and he asked if they’d ever seen a woman’s breast before. They didn’t quite know what to make of the question, and fortunately, no one gave them a quick lesson.The next night, Blueface and his entourage pulled up to the back door of the Gothic Theater in Englewood and were greeted by an agitated security guard, a couple of concerned-looking venue representatives and a baby-faced local police officer. The security guard said he’d received reports of trouble in Colorado Springs, something about underage women exposing their breasts onstage (which had not happened). Blueface was mostly quiet while his bombastic manager, Wack 100, protested, “Was you there to see that?”The game of chicken outside the venue lasted around five minutes; each side threatened to derail the night’s show before eventually relenting. Blueface remained quiet and nonconfrontational, more accommodationist than rabble-rouser. The show went off without a hitch.Blueface has a sleepy, easy charm, and moves with the carriage of the athletic star he was just a few years ago. If it was the early 1990s, he’d already have been cast in a Hughes Brothers or John Singleton film. (For now, how about a three-episode arc on “Ballers”?)When he was a child, his mother, who’d moved to Los Angeles from Ohio to pursue acting, took him around for commercial auditions. “It was fun when I got picked and I was in the commercial and it was like, ‘oh, look at the commercial!’” he said. “But I didn’t enjoy it as a kid.”He stopped auditioning once he began taking football more seriously. He attended several high schools, constantly changing in pursuit of a better sports program. William Coan coached Blueface during his 2014 senior year at Arleta High School, during which the team went 8-4, averaging 40 points a game. Blueface was the starting quarterback, and talented — “Not only could he throw the ball, he could run the ball as well,” Coan said — and also easy to coach: After the team worked out in the weight room, Blueface would blast the gratingly saccharine “Clean Up,” from the Barney children’s series, from his phone.Getting groomed for the spotlight on the field has been a help in music. “You the center of attention,” Blueface said. “Keep your poise, pressure make diamonds.”Blueface moved to North Carolina to give college football a try, and his mother left California as well. When he returned after a short stint that went nowhere, her absence ended up being a boon. “I think if she was in Cali when I was doing my thing, it wouldn’t have worked,” he said. “I would have been in her nest, and she wouldn’t have necessarily agreed with half the [expletive] I was doing. It made Blueface be able to be Blueface 100 percent.”Blueface was his street name — he is a member of the School Yard Crips gang, which dominated the neighborhood he grew up in before it was his rap name. When he returned from college, he became a stay-at-home dad, caring for his son, Jevaughn, while Jevaughn’s mother, Jaidyn, would go off to work. He thought he might become a barber, and ran an Instagram account called the Fade Room, showing off haircuts and fights. But after a chance outing to a studio, he decided to pursue rapping, making a list of steps for music-business success, only some of which had to do with music.“I didn’t know what kind of sound I wanted to make. I didn’t have no influences,” he said. “I just heard my voice in the microphone and was like, damn, I like that.” He posted a handful of songs to SoundCloud, each with a different style. The one that stuck was “Deadlocs,” a casual, boastful talker with a spooky beat from an old friend, Scum Beatz. He set goals for daily play counts, and for when he would shoot a video. Then he started creating viral moments — taking informal polls on Instagram about which high school’s students were following him the most, then driving to that school and performing an impromptu concert atop his car. Rather than goof off to gain followers, he wanted to be sure his face was connected to his song: “Putting it from your ears to your eyes.”IN TODAY’S HIP-HOP ecosystem, distribution and starmaking systems are well-oiled; the fans are there before the artist ever shows up. Memes get disseminated quickly (and mostly discarded quickly too). Snippets of songs are used as soundtracks for selfie or dance videos. The music — the musician — is often merely an accent.That makes social media a necessary evil and a savage tease for upstart musicians of this generation: You have to cultivate a viral-friendly image, but not let it swallow your art. “People be famous for everything other than music and that’s what they really trying to do,” Blueface said. “But they don’t know once you get famous for being this funny guy, nobody’s going to take you serious as a musician.”Still, if it’s virality the kids want, then virality Blueface will give them. Last year, when he wasn’t yet able to Crip walk (a footwork-heavy dance pioneered by Crips), he was mocked online. So he taught himself, filming his progress. However he doesn’t always identify when the winds aren’t going his way, like when he faced backlash for recently referring to a transgender woman as “it.” He shrugged off questions about the matter.As for his living-meme Ben Franklin tattoo, he insists he was sober when he got it, not long after he’d decided to become a rapper, but long before fans had really taken to him. “The people that went with me was like, ‘Nah, don’t do that. Do not do that.’” Blueface said. But he was determined: “This is going to be the never-forget-it,” he told them. No turning back.Eventually, Blueface collected several songs he’d posted on his SoundCloud on “Famous Cryp,” which he initially released independently and has gone as high as No. 29 on the Billboard album chart. He is also signed to Cash Money West, and his new music, including the singles “Bleed It” and “Studio,” will be released via Republic, a division of the Universal Music conglomerate. “I’ve got two labels going full throttle with two singles,” Wack 100 said. Add to that guest appearances on songs by G-Eazy, Tyga and others, creating, he said, “so much traffic.”The suffusion is likely to continue through the spring; Blueface has recorded songs with Drake, the Game, French Montana, Lil Pump, E-40 and others.“‘Thotiana’ has become, like, a worldly song. It’s like ‘Teach Me How to Dougie,’ ‘Chicken Noodle Soup,’” Wack 100 said, referring to transcendent hip-hop one-hit wonders of a decade ago. “What happens is those songs will get so big and the artist will get caught up in the moment of making all the money off that song that then when it drowns out, you come with a song after the fact and because it’s not as big as that, people won’t deal with you. So I’m forced to feed them something different.”In recent months, as Blueface’s career has been thriving, there have been legal setbacks. He was arrested in February on charges of gun possession and last November on charges of assault with a deadly weapon (after he was reportedly the victim of a robbery). Blueface has pleaded not guilty in both cases.In the meanwhile, Johnathan is trying to squeeze all the rewards out of being Blueface. He bought a house in a gated community. When he last saw his mother, he gave her $10,000 in cash. Jaidyn joined him in Colorado — the two have been on and off since high school, and slowly, he’s trying to induct her into his new life. “To understand that you are literally two different people inside of one body, she’s just starting to get it,” he said. “You with Johnathan — you don’t want to be with Blueface.”This month, he’ll be on tour opening for Lil Baby. And this summer, he hopes to release a proper full-length album. But you can almost sense the creeping fatigue. Being Blueface is, right now, almost constant work.“I just want to get paid to lay down, wake up when I want to wake up, go to sleep when I want to go to sleep, and my money just be there,” he said, unapologetically. “I just want to make the most doing the least.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaOAKLAND, Calif. — The Golden State Warriors run a practice drill that Coach Steve Kerr did not intend as a tribute, even if he named it after someone who taught him a great deal. He calls it the “Lute Olson drill,” and it is a blur of activity: a 3-on-2 exercise that Kerr uses to get his players up and down the court.“It’s a good way to get a little running and rhythm and shooting,” he said.The Warriors, who are pretty good at those things, have elevated basketball into modern art in recent seasons. But Kerr, as he helps define basketball’s present, cannot help but dip into his past. He learned that drill in 1983, when he was a freshman guard at the University of Arizona playing for Olson, who was in the early stages of building a college powerhouse. Kerr, ever the student, was already absorbing as much as he could.Olson, 84, retired as the men’s basketball coach at Arizona in 2008, but his influence resonates. Not so much, oddly enough, at the college level, where, of late, Arizona has had its well-publicized struggles along with the rest of the Pac-12 Conference. Instead, Olson’s impact exists largely in the N.B.A. — and with the Warriors, in particular.Bruce Fraser, one of Kerr’s longtime assistants, played for Olson in the 1980s before working under him as a graduate assistant. And Andre Iguodala, the veteran Warriors forward, played at Arizona from 2002 to 2004, when he sought to emulate an older teammate named Luke Walton.“All the fundamentals,” Iguodala said. “Things like footwork, body positioning and just being a smart player.”Walton, who now has the thankless task of coaching the Los Angeles Lakers, is still considered a member of the Warriors’ extended family after serving as one of Kerr’s assistants for two seasons. Before Walton joined the Warriors in 2014, Kerr did not know him well. But Olson recommended him, and that was more than enough.“If you came out of Arizona during that era, you knew how to play the game,” Fraser said. “And that was mostly because of Lute.”Olson, who has had health issues in recent years, emphasized basketball basics. Each practice began with a series of chest passes. Players worked on their weak hands. The Warriors, who warm up by launching half-court heaves, are slightly less regimented.“If Coach Olson walked in and saw some of this, he’d be shaking his head,” Fraser said. “He’d think we’re so loose.”The Warriors are still mindful of the essentials, though, especially at training camp, where they dribble around traffic cones and throw passes at pitch-back nets configured with targets. If they channel the Harlem Globetrotters, their flamboyance is rooted in bedrock principles.“And I think you could tie a lot of that back to Coach Olson and Arizona,” Fraser said.Kerr played for several legendary N.B.A. coaches — Phil Jackson, Gregg Popovich, Lenny Wilkens, Cotton Fitzsimmons — and he took pieces from each as he developed his own style. Jerry Marvin, his former coach at Palisades High School in Los Angeles, made a big impression, too. But these were coaches with unique approaches.“I think the common thread is their force of personality,” Kerr said. “They all saw the game a little differently and ran different stuff, basing a lot of it on their personnel. But it’s not what made them great coaches. It was having great talent, and then developing a great culture and system so that their talent could flourish.”Olson, for example, adapted to the strengths of his roster. He became more guard-oriented over the years, especially after he recruited high-profile players like Damon Stoudamire, Khalid Reeves and Gilbert Arenas. (Kerr noted how he had been one of the “slow guys in the backcourt” when Olson was just starting out at Arizona.)But Olson was not necessarily trying to outwit anyone by being especially innovative. Basketball, Kerr said, is not like football, where a mastermind like Bill Belichick can lean on his tactical genius to mold the New England Patriots into the most dominant N.F.L. team of his era.“Football is so strategic,” Kerr said. “But in basketball, there aren’t many guys I can think of historically who are the best coaches on earth who were just offensive wizards or defensive wizards. It was more about the culture they built and the way their teams played together — not a style or a system.”It has become a hackneyed concept in sports, as if teams can just crack the code on demand, but Olson was all about culture, his former players say. Jason Terry, a retired N.B.A. guard who played at Arizona from 1995 to 1999, recalled his recruitment. He was not a shy young man, but Olson, at that point firmly established as one of the game’s top coaches, had the sort of gravitas that intimidated him.On the second day of Terry’s official visit to Arizona, Olson and his wife, Bobbi, had him over for pancakes.“These unbelievable pancakes,” Terry, an analyst for Turner Sports, said in a telephone interview. “That was a big part of the recruitment. But I also remember that he kind of came over and put his big paw on my shoulder, and I jumped. He was like, ‘Nothing to be scared of young fella. It’s great to have you in my home.’ And from that point on, you were just at ease.”Olson, Terry said, was the first coach he had who never used profanity. Olson would glare. His face would go red. And those big paws would shake.“But he would never yell,” Terry said. “He would just say your name over and over and over.”Above all, Olson imbued his players with the sense that they were a part of something larger than themselves. Before the national championship game in 1997, two prominent alumni — Kerr and Sean Elliott, both of whom had graduated to the N.B.A. — boarded the team bus. Olson had invited them to address his players, and their message was simple: Do it for all of us who have come before you but could never quite get the job done.Terry saw that Olson had tears in his eyes. Arizona went on to win its first national title by defeating Kentucky in overtime.“We knew that we couldn’t let him down,” Terry said.With the Warriors, Kerr definitely swears on occasion. (Ask Draymond Green.) And the N.B.A. is not college basketball. But Kerr still tries to foster an atmosphere that is more about the collective whole than about its supremely talented parts. Kerr loathes isolation sets. He celebrates ball movement. And he stages team dinners on road trips, where family members are welcome.As for the Pac-12, these are rough days. Arizona, under Coach Sean Miller, has been entwined in a corruption scandal, and the conference could send just one team to the N.C.A.A. tournament. Iguodala described the Pac-12 as garbage (he used a more colorful word), though he expressed hope moving forward. Kerr was more diplomatic.“It’s been a dry spell,” he said. “And I really don’t know the answer.”In fact, the Pac-12 has not won a national championship since Kerr boarded the Arizona team bus back in 1997 and delivered his pregame pep talk. But in his own way, as the Warriors chase another title, he is still carrying the mantle for the conference and his old coach.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerDon Nice, who in a varied career was known for Pop Art, paintings inspired by the Hudson River and works that broke free of the traditional rectangular canvas, died on Monday in Cortlandt, N.Y. He was 86.His daughter, Leslie Heanue, confirmed the death but did not specify a cause.Mr. Nice began painting in the 1950s. At first he was enthralled by the Abstract Expressionism of the period, but he eventually found it limiting.“I’d be doing a painting, and suddenly there’s a big red blob, and people would say, ‘That looks like an apple,’ so I’d paint it out,” he was quoted as saying in a biographical essay by Antonia D. Bryan on his website.He began painting realistic images, some quite large — grapes, a sneaker, a buffalo. When the buffalo painting, 11 feet wide, was exhibited in 1985 at the since-closed Fine Arts Museum of Long Island, in Hempstead, Phyllis Braff wrote in The New York Times that “normal perceptual range contributes to a sensation of walking into brush-stroke segments belonging to a larger mass.”After leaving New York City and moving in 1969 to the banks of the Hudson River in Garrison, N.Y., Mr. Nice became increasingly interested in natural landscapes. He also explored paintings that broke free of the traditional painter’s rectangle.“Don Nice is more than eclectically captivating in his combination of Pop Art, shaped canvases and realism,” David Shirey wrote in The Times, reviewing a 1982 group show on Long Island in which MAdvertisementSupported byLetter of RecommendationBy Kelli María KorduckiIn the Canadian city where I used to live, there was a nude beach where I spent a lot of time. It was no rare occurrence to find, near the beach’s northern boundary, a small but fervent cohort of nude baby boomers distributing Naturism 101 pamphlets. In an outsize font on an ancient webpage they’d set up, the beach naturists dared visitors to “!!BE NATURAL AND FEEL THE FREEDOM!!” They outlined etiquette (no come-ons, no sex) and suggested recreational pursuits (flag football, a potluck). The naturists could be a little doctrinaire — once, someone wearing nothing but a Tilley hat chided me for my bikini bottom, bellowing, “Way to be clothed!” — but they would usually feign tolerance at the beachgoing public’s ignorance of their framing principles.“Naturism” and “nudism” are used interchangeably to describe a doctrine of communally convening outdoors in the buff. But “naturism,” with its Thoreauvian connotations of fresh air and vigor, seems preferred among the true believers. On my beach, I suspect it was also a gentle protest against the prim, Anglo-Saxon mores of a metropolis where cops were known to set up speed traps for cyclists. The precept naturists hold the most sacred is body acceptance — to “not judge anyone by their body shape or other war wounds” and to ignore the nakedness of others. This attitude made their corner of the beach a respite from the outside world and its duller standards of decency. For years, I’d go weekly.My summers of situational naturism peaked during the regrettable period that bridged my mid- and late 20s, transitional years burdened by the existential uncertainties of career and relationship, which were themselves compounded by the looming specter of real, actual adulthood. I’d begun to see my body as an outward expression of the follow-through I associated with maturity, a state of being where desires were fully formed and big questions had answers. I skipped down a merry path forged by countless young women before me who, wriggling under the thumb of patriarchy, thought it would be a good idea to gain control of their lives body-first. I got into distance running and lost 10 pounds; I brewed kombucha and joined a C.S.A.; I hired a therapist and replaced the store-brand vitamin D and B12 supplements I sometimes took with the expensive ones she recommended. Body “acceptance” was very much not my thing.But the nude beach urged me to imagine my body as mere flesh on frame, neither symbol nor cyborg. Busy with the strain of embodying a casually naked persona, my subconscious swatted away the petty anxieties that otherwise crowded my overactive mind. I couldn’t afford to think about how I looked or who was looking — that would be way too stressful. I couldn’t gawk or gape, which is harder than it sounds. I had no choice but to give myself over to the pursuit of small, sensory freedoms. I made it my job.Compared with us tourists, the bona fide beach naturists were easy to spot. Older, whiter and fairly mixed in gender, they showed an affinity for equipment-dependent recreation — their games of horseshoes seemed like catastrophes waiting to happen — and barbecues. They appeared invigorated by the plain fact of one another’s naked company, an excitement they expressed with a flurry of wholesome activity. The rest of us tended toward a more slothful nakedness; we swam, we sunned, we had picnics of cheese and wine. We did what we would normally do at any beach, albeit while avoiding eye contact with one another’s areolas.My friends and I hardly followed the naturists’ chaste, no-judge code to the letter, but the more we visited, the closer we approached a sense of ease. The discipline of public nakedness rewarded our efforts in proportion to our degree of exertion, the euphoria of being in the moment a direct byproduct of battling the innate and unignorable weirdness of our collective situation. Off the beach, I was a distracted, ruminating mess; my therapist, annoyed by my self-conscious inability to “body scan” during guided mindfulness exercises, swiftly fired me as her patient. But on the beach, consumed with the task of pretending this was normal, I was able to attain what I assume is something like Zen. Naturism required so much effort that, somehow, it worked.Maybe naturists truly believe it’s possible for a body to just be a body — that by imposing a neutral state of mammalian coexistence, people can fake social equilibrium, if only for an afternoon. I can see how, for some, there is power in the notion that your body is enough. For my friends and me, over those summers, naturism came to be something we tried on; less a worldview than a means of believing, momentarily, in the escapability of bodily burden. Such utopian nudeness takes discipline and rules, both of which naturism handily provides. And I suspect, for many, a result of this laborious reorientation might resemble “being present.”Nakedness doesn’t democratize social experience, as the naturists seem to suggest. Instead, it offers something better: a shared preoccupation. It’s so awkward to act blasé about being naked around other people — people who are also, themselves, naked — that there’s nothing left to do but submit en masse to the social and afferent novelty. Take in the warmth of the sun on your bare butt, skinny-dip unaccompanied by a sneaky sense of thrill, try not to stare at anyone’s penile jewelry. It’s easier said than done.Kelli María Korducki is the author of “Hard to Do: The Surprising, Feminist History of Breaking Up.”Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn TennisBy Karen CrouseMELBOURNE, Australia — After bowing out of the Australian Open this week, Jack Sock and his childhood friend and doubles partner, Jackson Withrow, ended up on opposite sides of a great divide.Withrow’s childhood dream was to play professional tennis; doubles proved to be his only portal.Sock, the world’s second-ranked doubles player, has an Olympic gold medal from 2016 that he won in the mixed event, which led to his being honored at a University of Nebraska football game and throwing a ceremonial first pitch at a Kansas City Royals baseball game.In addition, he shares four Grand Slam titles, three in doubles and the other in mixed.Sock, 26, has also climbed as high as No. 8 in singles, which is where he stood last year at this time. His ranking since has tumbled to 105, but singles remains No. 1 in his heart.“I can personally say if I’m not relevant in the singles world and my only choice is to play doubles, I’d probably stop playing tennis,” Sock said.Doubles is supposed to be the harmonic expression of tennis, but at the Australian Open, the doubles court has become the receptacle for petty grievances and philosophical divergences. It started with Bernard Tomic accusing his countryman and Davis Cup captain, Lleyton Hewitt, of a litany of leadership failures, including writing himself into the lineup for Davis Cup.Then Dan Evans, the 189th-ranked singles player, fanned the flames in his native Britain by describing doubles players as athletes “who didn’t make it at singles and people who didn’t have the attitude to work hard enough to make it in the singles game.”Jamie Murray, ranked seventh in doubles, dismissed Evans’s comments as “lazy” and “just total nonsense” and said, “We should be celebrating any success we have in the sport — doubles, mixed doubles, wheelchairs, whatever.”The Australian Open is called the Happy Slam, but the crankiness quotient at this one has been high — as if everybody woke up on the wrong side of 2019. The men’s tour appears to be a house divided over the future of the ATP president and chief executive, Chris Kermode, who some believe should be removed from office. The women have complained that the men do not support gender equity. The men fell in line behind an exasperated Rafael Nadal, who said at a news conference, “I don’t know why you are trying all the time to create these kinds of stories on this thing.”On Wednesday, the tournament’s 10th day, there was harmony, at least in the stands of Rod Laver Arena. During a changeover in the Australian Samantha Stosur’s semifinal victory with Zhang Shuai against Barbora Strycova and Marketa Vondrousova, the Village People blared from the speakers and even the chair umpire got in the act of forming the letters in Y.M.C.A.By the tournament’s stretch run, all of Australia was celebrating doubles since the men’s, women’s, mixed and wheelchair finals included at least one native son or daughter. (An Australian hasn’t won a singles title here since 1978.) But no amount of success will sway Sock to embrace doubles exclusively.Sock, who played most of last year with Mike Bryan because Bryan’s twin, Bob, was nursing a hip injury, won two majors and about $1.3 million playing doubles and $738,747 while compiling a 9-21 record in singles. He finished 17th over all in ATP prize money despite ranking outside the top 100 in singles.“It’s not just singles that you can make a career from in tennis,” said Murray, who has six Grand Slam titles to his brother Andy’s three in singles. “It’s important for a lot of young kids to know that growing up. It’s not easy to make it in the tennis world. There are only a few people that can make a really good living from the game. The journey is incredibly long. However you get there, whether it’s singles or doubles or whatever, there’s options there for you.”With four career singles titles, including three in 2017, Sock would appear to have more options than most. But he doesn’t see it that way.Ryan Harrison, who teamed with Sam Querrey to beat Sock and Withrow in the round of 16 this week, said: “Jack doesn’t want to feel discredited for his singles ability because of his dominance in doubles. And a lot of time his success in doubles overshadows him as a top-10 singles player. He’s going, ‘I’ve been 8 in the world in singles, and people are talking about me like a doubles guy.’ That perception is always going to be difficult for him.”As long as the stigma persists that doubles players are lesser than singles players, the Socks of the sport are going to have a strong incentive to stick to singles. Harrison said he has tried to appeal to Sock’s vanity.“I’ve told him it’d give him more confidence in singles if he took more pride in literally being the most dominant doubles player,” Harrison said. “He feels like he’s being viewed as someone not capable of playing singles.”Mike Bryan said he hated to hear Sock would sooner leave the sport than stick to doubles.“When he gets out on the doubles court, he has a blast,” Bryan said. “And because of doubles, he’s played in some of the biggest stadiums in the world, he’s won a gold medal, he’s been honored at a Nebraska football game. What’s the harm in all of that?”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAn exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York — including photographs that have never been published before — shows the pioneering player with his teammates and his family.By Sopan DebIn 1947 the New York Post sportswriter Jimmy Cannon wrote that Jackie Robinson “is the loneliest man I have ever seen in sports.” Robinson had recently made his debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers — as a 28-year-old who had led the charge to racially integrate Major League Baseball. The isolation was real. He endured racist taunts and death threats, in addition to being shunned by some of his teammates.Yet a new photography exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York — “In the Dugout With Jackie Robinson: An Intimate Portrait of a Baseball Legend” — gives a broader view of Robinson’s life on and off the field. In about 30 photographs, all taken in either 1949 or 1953 and mostly unpublished, he is seen surrounded by teammates and family members. The images were originally shot for Look magazine by the staff photographers Kenneth Eide and Frank Bauman. The exhibition also has rare memorabilia, like a baseball signed by the 1952 Dodgers and a glove that belonged to Robinson. A home video shows Robinson hitting baseballs to his son, Jackie Jr., and some other neighborhood children in Connecticut.[On Jackie Robinson’s 100th Birthday, 100 Photos of an Icon][Claire Smith: Jackie Robinson Showed Me How to Fight On, Not Fight Back][George Vecsey: How Jackie Robinson Changed the Game]Robinson wasn’t the first black player in the history of Major League Baseball. That distinction belongs to Moses Fleetwood Walker, a catcher for the Toledo Blue Stockings in the American Association in 1884. He only played one season because of an injury and soon after, black players were banned. But Robinson’s legacy is unmatched: He not only inspired generations of Americans to pursue baseball but also helped black football and basketball players gain acceptance in their leagues while devoting himself to the civil rights movement before his death at the age of 53 in 1972.Robinson’s special relationship with Look magazine is apparent in the show. He wrote three articles in 1955, including one called “Now I Know Why They Boo Me,” which can be read at the exhibition. Robinson also announced his retirement through Look, instead of at a news conference, an unusual move at the time. The magazine donated its New York archives to the museum in the 1950s, and for years the negatives and contact prints were buried in its basement. Over the last year, Sean Corcoran and Susan Gail Johnson, the exhibition’s curators, combed through hundreds of negatives before finally picking the ones that would be on view for this small yet powerful show. Robinson is seen at home with his wife, Rachel Robinson, and his son, Jackie Jr. Many of these stills are from 1949, two years after he had entered the major leagues. Another photograph shows Robinson typing, an indication of how much Robinson wanted to be in charge of his own story. The Robinsons married in 1946, just before spring training in Florida, and that same year, Rachel gave birth to Jackie Robinson Jr. He later died in a car crash in 1971 at 24. “It was important to show him as a human being more than just this towering figure in baseball history,” Mr. Corcoran said. “To ground him as a human being with a personal story.”The exhibition also shows Robinson late in his career, in 1953, seemingly having positive interactions with his teammates, as well as some with Robinson shirtless, which would not have been published at the time. In one of the shirtless photos, Robinson is seen talking to a white teammate in the clubhouse. Museum officials believe he is Carl Furillo, an all-star right fielder.“His guard is down. This is a completely intimate moment,” Mr. Corcoran said in an interview. “You don’t know what they’re saying, but they’re having some sort of serious but open discussion with each other.”These photos show Robinson perhaps a bit more at ease than he was as a rookie, partially because at this point, he had shown himself to be one of the best players in the league, which resulted in him being more accepted in the locker room.Robinson was an exceptional player. But with that came resentment from opposing teams. Opposing pitchers often threw at his body. (He was hit 72 times in his career.) In his second full year, he led the National League in hit-by-pitches with seven. In seven of his 10 seasons, he was among the top five players hit by opposing pitchers.Robinson was also a speedster. He led the National League twice in stolen bases — and actually stole home 19 times, which today would be unheard-of.In the Dugout With Jackie RobinsonThrough Sept. 15 at the Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan; 212-534-1672, mcny.org.Sopan Deb is a culture reporter, writing about the intersection of politics and culture, among other topics. He covered Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign for CBS News, and his work has appeared on NBC, Al Jazeera America and elsewhere.  @sopandeb AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaA computer hacker who for years published the innermost secrets of the global soccer industry — revelations that have shed light on questionable behavior by some of the sport’s most influential figures and top clubs — was told on Tuesday that he would be extradited to Portugal, where he faces charges linked to his activities.Lawyers for the man, Rui Pinto, 30, immediately said they planned to appeal the decision made by a court in Budapest, where he was arrested in January. They argued that his whistle-blowing activities far outweighed any crimes he might have committed in securing the documents. In Portugal, Mr. Pinto is charged with an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fund that had bet millions of dollars in the player transfer market.The leaks first emerged in 2015, on a website called Football Leaks, before Mr. Pinto, a year later, joined with the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and a group of other European news media organizations to slowly disseminate related news articles. They painted an unflattering picture of an industry troubled by questionable efforts to avoid millions of dollars in tax, flagrant rule breaking by some top clubs and an alleged sexual assault by one of soccer’s biggest stars, Cristiano Ronaldo.While the Portuguese authorities want to put Mr. Pinto on trial, their counterparts in France and Belgium have said they want to work with him, to gain access to the enormous database he has compiled as they continue investigations into figures in the soccer world. The ruling in Hungary makes that difficult, said Francisco Teixeira da Mota, who is part of a legal team that includes William Bourdon, a French lawyer who previously represented the national security whistle-blower Edward Snowden.Hungarian officials seized all of Mr. Pinto’s computer equipment, including hard drives containing the soccer industry data, when he was arrested. The Hungarian judge ruled that all of that can be sent to Portuguese authorities. That will chill efforts by the authorities in other countries, and make it impossible for further revelations to emerge, Mr. Teixeira da Mota said.“We think if he’s extradited to Portugal it would put a stop to all that,” he said, adding that the Portuguese case is limited to Mr. Pinto’s conduct in relation to the investment fund Doyen Sports and the soccer team Sporting Clube de Portugal.It is not clear how much of the data Der Spiegel possesses and how much of it the news weekly is prepared to share with investigators.While being hailed as a whistle-blower by many, Mr. Pinto’s past conduct has raised questions about his motives. He reached an out-of-court settlement with the Caledonian Bank after being accused of hacking into its systems and transferring thousands of dollars from one of its client accounts. Mr. Pinto denies he stole any of the money, but citing a nondisclosure agreement, he has declined to provide further details.As he awaits his fate, news media groups with access to his data continue to publish new revelations. As recently as last weekend, details emerged of an apparent effort by the Premier League giant Manchester City to circumvent fiscal rules set by European soccer’s governing body by disguising sponsorship payments, and another alleged scheme by the same club to run an off-the-books player recruitment fund.Mr. Pinto’s appeal is likely to take up to two weeks to be settled, his lawyer said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonCOSTA MESA, Calif. — Dean Spanos is breathing a sigh of relief.Spanos, owner of the Los Angeles Chargers, has been criticized relentlessly for moving his team out of San Diego — into a soccer stadium, no less — and for the tepid reception the team has received in its new home 100 or so miles north.But in sports, winning is the ultimate elixir, and the Chargers (and their new crosstown rivals, the Rams) are winning.The Chargers went a surprising 12-4 this season, including victories in Seattle, Pittsburgh and Kansas City. They will face the Patriots in Foxborough, Mass. on Sunday.The wins come at a critical time for the team, which has started selling seat licenses to would-be season-ticket holders in the new, 70,000-seat stadium the Chargers will share with the Rams beginning in 2020.In an interview at the team’s training facility this week, Spanos said that the Chargers’ success was helping generate interest in the team, but that winning over fans in Los Angeles was a long-term project.On the team’s decision to play temporarily in a 27,000-seat soccer stadium“Just being able to get around the stadium, the amenities, all the game-day experience is important, and I think it’s appreciated.”On the sale of seat licenses for season tickets in the new stadium“We’re probably where we thought we would be, and playing well really helps. Timing is everything. It kind of jumps every time [we win]. Monday mornings are great when you win in the playoffs.”On the decision to price seat licenses as low as $100“We gave up a little, but enough to make it more affordable. Once we get them there, it’s more important than trying to make another 25 or 30 bucks a ticket. And that really helps you establish yourself in the market.”On the Chargers’ commitment to the market“There’s no doubt we’re the Los Angeles Chargers. Los Angeles is our home.”On competing with the Rams and whether the city can support two N.F.L. teams“This market is big enough for two teams. If I didn’t think so, I wouldn’t have moved here.”On fans from San Diego supporting, or not supporting, the team“Obviously, there’s a percentage of fans who will probably never come back, and then there’s a percentage that might be apathetic, and then there’s a percentage who are Chargers fans.”On finding a footing in the Los Angeles market“We didn’t expect anyone to roll out the red carpet. We knew this was going to be a fight to find our niche in the marketplace, and you build on that. I understand how the San Diego fans feel, I can’t change that. At the same time, I knew coming up here it was going to take maybe a generation to build that kind of fan base. That’s not going to happen in two, three years. It’s a slow process.”AdvertisementWhen Robert Kraft finishes dealing with solicitation charges in Florida, his soccer team could use some help.CreditCreditAdam Glanzman for The New York TimesSupported byBy Kevin DraperFOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Robert K. Kraft’s New England Patriots are a very good football team, having won six Super Bowl championships the past 19 years. They are 33-5 against the A.F.C. East division rival Buffalo Bills during that span.In a cruel twist of fate, Robert Kraft’s other team that plays at Gillette Stadium, the New England Revolution, might as well be the Buffalo Bills of Major League Soccer. There was a run of dominance — four M.L.S. Cup Finals appearances in six years — without a championship, and a mostly fallow period now going on a decade. The team is below .500 (125-148-89) since 2008, the year after it went to its third straight M.L.S. Cup Finals.Kraft has bigger concerns at the moment than the Revolution. He is facing two misdemeanor charges of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. (Kraft denies illegal activity.) Kraft most likely won’t face jail time, but the charges could result in a fine or a suspension or both from the National Football League, where he has become one of the most powerful owners, and from Major League Soccer, where he also enjoys a long, close relationship with the commissioner.If his attention turns back to his soccer team, he is likely to find a house in the middle of a major overhaul.“One of our strategies last year was to instill a new culture at the club,” said Brad Friedel, the former United States national team goalkeeper hired to turn around the team last year. He said a tear-down had been necessary. “We felt that there needed to be a completely different work ethic.”Friedel spoke before the Revolution’s home opener last weekend, a 2-0 loss to the Columbus Crew. He praised his team’s recent signings, but he didn’t hesitate to criticize the team he took over. “We needed leaders,” he said. “We didn’t have a lot of leaders last year.”There is no Tom Brady here.The Revolution began play in 1996, as one of Major League Soccer’s 10 original teams. Kraft, alongside Lamar Hunt and Philip Anschutz, recruited Don Garber from the N.F.L. to be the league’s commissioner, and that tight group helped keep M.L.S. afloat in the early 2000s, when it was on the verge of collapse.But while Kraft has been able to master the N.F.L., the soccer revolution in America has mostly passed him by.The Revolution are one of three M.L.S. teams that still play in cavernous football stadiums. The others, Atlanta United and the Seattle Sounders, justify it by drawing the largest average attendance figures in the league, but only 13,808 fans showed up for the Revolution’s home opener last weekend. The Revolution will draw better when there isn’t snow on the ground, of course, but last year’s average attendance ranked 16th in the league.The team has been trying to build a soccer-specific stadium somewhere in the Boston area since 2006. In the 13 years since, sites have been proposed, millions have been spent on architectural renderings, and plots of land have almost been purchased, all to eventually collapse for one reason or another. A new multimillion-dollar training center will open this season, but that too will be in Foxborough, even as the Boston stadium search goes on.“It’s about getting into a stadium that will transform soccer in our region,” the team president, Brian Bilello, said. “With that in mind, we have been patient, probably to a fault, to try and get the right project done.”In Garber’s mind, most of the Revolution’s problems would be fixed by a new stadium. “My view is their economic model is challenging in Gillette,” he said. “It has not been able to tap into the young, millennial sports fan in the Boston metropolitan area because it is further away.”The couple hundred die-hard Revolution fans tailgating in the parking lot before the home opener weren’t so sure. The stadium search has gone on for so long that they rarely get their hopes up anymore. A number of them said that it feels as if the Revolution are a distant priority for the Krafts.Bilello and Garber deny that is the case. Still, the N.F.L. is a $15 billion-a-year league, and a social, financial and cultural presence far bigger than M.L.S. Kraft sits on some of the N.F.L.’s most powerful committees. His son, Jonathan Kraft, holds those roles on M.L.S. committees and seems to handle most of the team’s day-to-day business.Last year, the Krafts spent $20 million to buy their third team, the Boston Uprising, an e-sports team that competes in the Overwatch League. The sardonic joke among some Revolution supporters is that now they’re not even the neglected second child, but something even worse: the ignored middle child.The team declined to make either Robert or Jonathan Kraft available for this article.Over the years, the Revolution have dabbled in signing higher-priced players, but none has proved a particularly large draw or game-changing addition on the field. The team now wants to give young homegrown players, like Isaac Angking, Nicolas Firmino and Justin Rennicks, a real pathway to first team minutes and success.This off-season, the team also acquired Carles Gil, a Spanish midfielder Friedel hopes will jump-start the attack, along with other players who figure to make an impact, like Edgar Castillo and Juan Fernando Caicedo. Bilello said that the team’s spending on players had been ramping up and that the Krafts were giving the team all the money it needed to compete; both Bilello and Friedel promised that another designated player — the league’s highest salary classification — would arrive in either May or July, once contractual issues could be worked out. They would not reveal the player’s identity.The team is also building a new $35 million training center adjacent to Gillette Stadium that will house both the first team and the academy. The center will feature a number of grass and artificial turf training pitches — the team’s current training pitch is covered in snow, so it has been practicing at Gillette Stadium — and the state-of-the-art facilities that, team officials hope, will help persuade new players to join.Soccer is soccer, though, and building a winning team is mostly the same the world over. The thing that makes M.L.S. unique, according to Friedel, who spent nearly two decades playing in England and other top European leagues, is that it is constantly evolving.“Whether there is a new rule, a new stadium, a new training ground, other new designated players, a new club, a new franchise, a new second division, a new third division,” he said, ticking off the list of possibilities, “all these things happened in this country because the league is growing.”The last four M.L.S. Cups have been won by teams that weren’t original league members, and the last few years have witnessed a steady expansion of the league. When M.L.S. fans think of the most exciting teams now, they are often thinking of bright new teams with bright new stadiums with bright young stars, clubs like Atlanta United and Los Angeles F.C.“At times it is easier to be new, and it is easier to be a new and improved, than it is to be a legacy business,” Garber said.In New England, they know how true this is.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byShow Us Your WallBy Hilarie M. Sheets“Art gave me something to segue into,” said Keith Rivers, a former N.F.L. linebacker, at his art-filled house in Beverly Hills. “I’ve really gotten serious as far as studying, going to shows, going to all the museums I can.”Mr. Rivers, who is 32, is throwing himself into art and culture in a way few people can. He plans to move to Paris this summer and use it as a base of operations for an immersive year of learning that will include studying French and trying to visit every art museum in Europe. “That will be my art history,” he said.In the meantime, for research, he has a tall stack of old art magazines and catalogs flagged with Post-its that he referred to frequently during a recent conversation about his collection.During his rookie season with the Cincinnati Bengals in 2009, Mr. Rivers bought his first piece — an Andy Warhol Electric Chair print — after a trip to the Museum of Modern Art with a woman he had been interested in when he was studying at the University of Southern California. “She was an art history major and explained Oldenburg to me,” he said. “I got curious.” She married someone else, but the curiosity remained.Since he retired from football in 2015, after also having played for the New York Giants and the Buffalo Bills, Mr. Rivers has deepened his pursuit of contemporary art and owns work by Rashid Johnson, Kerry James Marshall, Kara Walker, Tony Lewis, Sonia Gomes and Arjan Martins, among others.Works with strong graphic punch dominate his walls. Raised eyebrows and furrowed foreheads peer from a large piece by John Baldessari. A text-based canvas by Barbara Kruger proclaims, “You drive a hard bargain.” Glenn Ligon’s hot pink and yellow lettering on a red canvas spells out a Richard Pryor joke. In a Cyprien Gaillard piece, the cartoon face of Chief Wahoo — the logo of the Cleveland Indians — is superimposed on a pristine American landscape.“It calls out the paradox of rooting for this mascot, a caricature of a Native American, and how outdated caricatures live on through marketing,” Mr. Rivers said.“So many guys get done with football, and they have nothing; that became their sole identity,” he said. Art has “given me a whole new structure.”These are edited excerpts from the conversation.Why did you give up football?I’d been injured a lot. My interest was shifting toward things like art. If you’re not fully into football, it’s not the sport to play because you can really get hurt.How did you initially get interested in art?In high school, a girlfriend of mine was in a photography class. She’d pull me out of class sometimes to go take photos. In 2017, I was walking in Amsterdam with that same friend, who lives there, and she reminded me of that fact. I almost cried. I said, “Oh my God, you planted a seed for this passion.”How would you define the focus of your collection?At the moment I’m drawn toward art that has political meaning because of the times that we’re in. Issues of identity and language are highly important to me. There’s an element of race in the collection.That [canvas spelling out the date “Mar.3.1991”] is by Juan Capistrán, who was raised in South-Central. It is done in pig’s blood and is Rodney King day.John Edmonds does this “Hoods” series, which I just had to have. I grew up about 5 to 10 minutes away from Trayvon Martin’s murder. You can’t see anybody’s face in these photographs. With a hood, you don’t know who anyone could be from the back.Do you do a lot of research before you buy, or do you go with your gut?A little bit of both, depending on the price. Like the Glenn Ligon, I did extensive research for the best work that I could obtain. This is Lubaina Himid, the first black woman and the oldest person to win the Turner Prize. I had read about her in The New York Times, and then when I was at Basel [the art fair] this year, a friend came up and said, “You’ve got to come see this artist.” I was able to buy it quickly because something clicked.Are you involved with museums in any formal role?I’m on the executive committee for the Young Patrons Group at the Hammer Museum. It’s an opportunity to get people who are interested in art but may be intimidated. This is a great group to tear down some of those walls.slide showAdvertisementThe league’s scoring explosion didn’t happen overnight. Here’s a timeline of the journey to a record-breaking season.CreditCreditJustin K. Aller/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Ben Shpigel and Bill PenningtonThe 1,371 touchdowns scored in the 2018 N.F.L. regular season were the most for a single season in the 99-year history of the league. Quarterbacks threw more touchdown passes than ever. For the first time, both teams in a regulation game scored 50 or more points. Dozens of individual and team offensive records fell as players raced up and down the field, apparently to the delight of fans, because the N.F.L.’s television ratings spiked substantially.Fittingly, and not surprisingly, the four teams that remain in the hunt for a berth in the Super Bowl — the New Orleans Saints, the Kansas City Chiefs, the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots — scored the most points this season.But the recent offensive explosion in the N.F.L. didn’t just happen in the past year, nor did productive, pass-happy, fast-paced offensive schemes materialize in a vacuum. Instead, for roughly four decades (or the life span of Patriots quarterback Tom Brady), a series of innovations, minirevolutions, bold strategies from pioneering coaches and the purposeful rule changes by the N.F.L. led to the unprecedented 2018 season.And it was on this path that the four starting quarterbacks in Sunday’s conference championships games — two in their 40s and two in their early 20s — were also shaped.Here is a timeline of how the N.F.L. dragged itself from its low-scoring past to one of its wildest seasons ever.Aug. 3, 19771978 seasonThe N. F. L. makes it illegal for defenders to make significant contact with a wide receiver once he is more than 5 yards beyond the line of scrimmage. The league also loosens its restrictions on offensive linemen, allowing blockers to extend their arms and open their hands while protecting the quarterback on pass plays.Capitalizing on the new rules, Don Coryell, in his first year coaching the San Diego Chargers, installs a downfield-pass-oriented offense that spawns disciples for years to come. The offense, known as Air Coryell and helmed by quarterback Dan Fouts, now a Hall of Famer, leads the N.F.L. in passing from 1978 to 1983.Jan. 15, 19791980 season The new rules enacted in 1978 have a vast effect. In 1980, teams pass the football 47 percent of the time, compared with just 38 percent in 1977. The number of points scored per game jumps to 41, from 34.4 in 1977.1981 seasonBehind the innovative short-passing  scheme of Coach Bill Walsh, the San Francisco 49ers win their first Super Bowl. Walsh’s complex, horizontal offense relies on multiple wideout sets and ever-changing backfield formations. Called the West Coast offense, Walsh’s system is copied leaguewide after the 49ers win the Super Bowl two more times in the 1980s.1988 seasonCincinnati Coach Sam Wyche institutes a radical no-huddle offense, and his Super Bowl-bound Bengals lead the N.F.L. in points, yards gained, first downs and yards per passing attempt. Before each snap, quarterback Boomer Esiason, the league most valuable player, reads the defense and alters the play call, presaging the elaborate presnap adjustments made by Peyton Manning and Brady years later.1989 seasonThe University of Houston brings the run-and-shoot offense into the football mainstream. The pass-first scheme, popularized by Mouse Davis at Portland State in the late 1970s, is predicated on the quarterback and his four receivers reading and reacting to coverages. The Cougars set 26 N.C.A.A. records, and Andre Ware becomes the first black quarterback to win the Heisman Trophy, throwing for 4,699 yards and 44 touchdowns.Dec. 2, 1990Buffalo unveils its famed K-Gun offense in a 30-23 victory against Philadelphia. Operating out of the shotgun, quarterback Jim Kelly calls plays without huddling, spreading the ball in three-receiver sets. Behind its electrifying offense, Buffalo advances to its first of four consecutive Super Bowls.1994 season The N.F.L. renews its emphasis on prohibiting defensive backs from jamming receivers more than 5 yards downfield, and passing statistics climb.Oct. 4, 1994Sept. 17, 1995April 4, 20002000 seasonIn his senior year, Brees leads Purdue to last-minute upsets over Ohio State and Michigan, helping the Boilermakers clinch their first Big Ten title in more than 30 years. Brees, who threw for 3,668 yards with 36 touchdowns and just 12 interceptions, sets two N.C.A.A. records, 13 Big Ten records and 19 Purdue records. But because he operated a spread offense, his passing statistics are devalued by N.F.L. analysts, who remain uncertain of his pro potential. Brees’s height (6 feet) is also expected to hurt his prospects.April 21, 2001Sept. 23, 2001In the fourth quarter of New England’s 10-3 loss to the Jets, linebacker Mo Lewis levels Patriots quarterback Drew Bledsoe near the sideline, knocking him out of the game with a sheared blood vessel in his chest. Bledsoe plays one more series before being replaced by Brady. Bledsoe never regains his starting job for New England.Feb. 3, 2002Five months after replacing Bledsoe, Brady wins his first Super Bowl, 20-17, over the favored St. Louis Rams, whose league-leading offense was called The Greatest Show on Turf. Jan. 18, 2004New England advances to the Super Bowl after winning, 24-14, in Indianapolis in a game with leaguewide ramifications. After the Patriots followed Coach Bill Belichick’s orders to hit Colts receivers hard every chance they could, the N.F.L. responds by having officials emphasize defensive holding and illegal-contact calls, forcing defenders to be cautious about touching receivers beyond 5 yards.2004 seasonTexas Tech’s Air Raid offense system, developed by Coach Mike Leach, gains renown when the Red Raiders score 70 points in victories over Nebraska and Texas Christian. Texas Tech’s Kliff Kingsbury becomes the third college quarterback to throw for 10,000 yards. Part of the ingenuity of the Air Raid offense is its simplicity (there are eight basic plays) and its sophistication (there are countless outcomes based on options that stress ball distribution, spacing and tempo).2006 seasonIn the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, which forces the Saints to spend the 2005 season on the road, the franchise regroups by hiring Sean Payton as coach and, two months later, signing Brees, a free agent, to a six-year contract. Payton, an aggressive play-caller, and Brees, the most accurate quarterback in N.F.L. history, embark on a fruitful partnership. It produces a Super Bowl title three years later, 118 regular-season victories (second among quarterback-coach combinations to Belichick and Brady in the Super Bowl era) and a template, 11 years later, for a young coach and his quarterback for the Los Angeles Rams to follow.2007 seasonThe University of Oregon hires as offensive coordinator Chip Kelly, who revolutionizes the college game by ramping up the tempo of the spread offense in which quarterbacks have myriad options on a play. Kelly became highly coveted by the N.F.L., eventually landing with the Philadelphia Eagles in 2013. The spread offense, the successor to the West Coast, no-huddle offenses of the 1980s and 1990s, has become so pervasive in college and pro football that is has trickled down to the high school and youth ranks. The spread offense forces defenses to cover the entire field as well as each eligible receiver, and it also helps negate size and speed disadvantages at the line of scrimmage. At the high school and youth level, hundreds of future college quarterbacks and dozens of future N.F.L. quarterbacks receive an early schooling in the intricacies of an offensive system taking over the football world.The Patriots go 16-0 in the regular season, demolishing the N.F.L. with an offense as innovative as it is potent, continuing the trend to spread out defenses. Brady becomes the first quarterback to throw 50 touchdown passes as New England scores 589 points, the most in league history at the time. Under Belichick, the slot receiver, who aligns inside, transforms into a productive, critical position that torments defenses and destroys the mold of a prototypical receiver. The Patriots’ Wes Welker is a natural at the position, having played for Leach at Texas Tech. New England becomes the first team to run a majority of plays from the shotgun, the precursor to the short-passing boom infiltrating the N.F.L. Around the league, the average completion percentage surpasses 60 percent for the first time — to 61.2 — and it has not dipped below it since. Sept. 7, 2008On the Patriots’ 15th offensive snap of the season, Chiefs safety Bernard Pollard lunges at Brady as he releases a pass, causing the quarterback’s left leg to bend awkwardly. The unpenalized hit leaves Brady with two torn knee ligaments. After the season, the N.F.L. adjusts more rules, accelerating the passing explosion. The league bars defenders on the ground from lunging at a quarterback’s lower legs and agrees to assess a 15-yard penalty for hitting defenseless receivers in the head, a move that further allows them to catch the ball over the middle without fear.2011 season Brees sets a season record with 5,476 passing yards, and Brady surpasses 5,000 for the first time. Brady develops a strong on-field rapport with Rob Gronkowski, who in his second season epitomizes the new breed of tight ends,  who create unsolvable matchup problems with speed and size. Travis Kelce of the Chiefs is another such tight end. Jan. 7, 2013Reid, who had developed a reputation as a quarterback whisperer, is named head coach in Kansas City. He was an offensive assistant  in Green Bay in the 1990s, when Brett Favre led the Packers to two Super Bowls and won three league M.V.P. awards. By 1999, Reid was coach in Philadelphia, where he promptly drafted quarterback Donovan McNabb, who led the Eagles to five N.F.C. championship games. Four years after joining the Chiefs, Reid is instrumental in the team’s decision to focus much of their predraft attention on Mahomes.2013 seasonGoff enrolls at California to play for  Coach Sonny Dykes, who assisted Leach at Texas Tech, where Dykes coached Welker. Running the Bear Raid — Cal’s version of the Air Raid — Goff, as a true freshman, sets several program passing records.At Whitehouse High School in Texas, Mahomes passes for 3,587 yards with 41 touchdowns and four interceptions while running the Air Raid offense. Mahomes throws for 597 yards in his final game before heading to Texas Tech to play in the Air Raid system once again.April 25, 2013Five months before Manning breaks the season record for touchdown passes (55) and passing yards (5,477), the N.F.L. draft indicates where the league is trending. For the first time since 1963, no running back is taken in the first round. It happens again in 2014.2014 seasonIn what may have been a response to how Seattle’s defensive backs stifled Manning’s Denver Broncos in the Super Bowl, the N.F.L. emphasizes enforcing illegal-contact rules in the secondary for the first time in seven years. As a result, illegal-contact penalties soar, to an average of 3.31 per team from 1.19 in 2013, according to  nflpenalties.com. Defensive-holding penalties also increase, to an average of 7.34 per team from 5.66. Offenses capitalize on the new rules, throwing more touchdown passes (804) and completing a greater percentage of passes (62.6) than ever before.2015 SEASONAs a sophomore, Mahomes becomes Texas Tech’s starter, just as Goff is finishing his stellar career at Cal. Texas Tech trails only Washington State, where Leach now coaches, in pass attempts per game, with 47.7. Cal ranks fifth.25 N.F.L. quarterbacks surpass 3,000 passing yards, 13 surpass 4,000; teams average 243.8 passing yards a game, most in league history.April 28, 2016 2016 SeasonOct. 22: Mahomes completes 52 of 88 passes for 734 yards and five touchdowns in Texas Tech’s 66-59 loss to Oklahoma, breaking an N.C.A.A. record for total offense in a game, with 819 yards. Nov. 20: Goff makes his first start for the Rams, completing 17 of 31 passes for 134 yards in a 14-10 loss to Miami that portends the remainder of a lackluster rookie season under Coach Jeff Fisher. Goff lost all seven of his starts.Jan. 12, 2017The Rams, seeking to better develop Goff, hire Sean McVay as coach. At 30 years 11 months 19 days, McVay becomes the youngest coach in the N.F.L.’s modern era.Feb. 5, 2017Brady wins his fifth Super Bowl, as the Patriots overcome a 25-point deficit to beat the Atlanta Falcons. He completes 43 of 62 passes for 466 yards, with two touchdowns and an interception, a performance that earns him Super Bowl M.V.P. honors for the fourth time.April 27, 2017Aug. 3, 20172017 seasonUnder McVay’s tutelage, Goff blossoms, completing 62.1 percent of his passes for 3,804 yards and 28 touchdowns, as the Rams morph from the lowest-scoring team in the N.F.L. to the highest. McVay’s offense, heavy on play-action and screens and condensed alignments for receivers, is built for misdirection. His preferred personnel grouping — three receivers, one running back, one tight end — rarely deviates, but McVay confuses opponents by changing tempos, alignments and motions. Many of the Rams’ passing plays resemble runs, and vice versa. Feb. 4, 2018 The Philadelphia Eagles’ 41-33 Super Bowl victory over New England is an inflection point in the offensive revolution. It features the most combined yards in an N.F.L. game (1,151), and Brady throws for a Super Bowl-record 505 yards. The signature moment — a trick play called Philly Special — reinforces the appreciation of coaches’ ingenuity at the lower levels. The Eagles plucked the play from the 2016 Chicago Bears, but, according to The MMQB, it originated at a South Carolina high school in 2011 and had also been run by, among others, Clemson and Westlake High School in Austin, Tex. — the alma mater of Drew Brees and Eagles quarterback Nick Foles.March 27, 2018The N.F.L.’s latest attempts to regulate safety have an intended consequence of protecting its most valuable assets, its quarterbacks, and serve as prelude to a record-shattering season. The rule changes generate celebration from offensive players and fury from defenders, who are barred from initiating contact with their helmets by lowering their heads. The league emphasizes to officials that defenders cannot use their body weight to land on the quarterback as they are bringing him to the ground — or, well, ever, really. It also clarifies what constitutes a catch, acknowledging that players do not have to control the ball to the ground.2018 SEASONSept. 16: In a victory at Pittsburgh, Mahomes throws six touchdown passes, running his season total to 10. No one has ever thrown that many through the first two weeks. The next day, he turns 23. Across his first two starts, Mahomes dismisses the perception that being a product of an Air Raid offense is a hindrance in the N.F.L. His quick release and quicker reads power a Chiefs offense loaded with empty sets and run-pass options. His preternatural arm strength makes impossible passes probable. His improvisational genius — throwing on the run, or across his body, or with his opposite hand, or from crazy angles, with absurd velocity and accuracy — echoes his ad-libbing in high school and at Texas Tech. Oct. 8: Brees smashesManning’s career passing yardage record of 71,940 with a 62-yard touchdown to Tre’Quan Smith in the Saints’ 43-19 win against Washington. Brees ends the season at 74,437. Nov. 19: The N.F.L. of 2018 — young quarterbacks, bushels of points, heaps of passing yards — unfolds over four mesmerizing hours at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. The Rams defeat the Chiefs, 54-51, in the first game in which both teams score at least 50 points. Mahomes completes 33 of 46 passes for 478 yards, six touchdowns and three interceptions. Goff completes 31 of 49 passes for 413 yards, four touchdowns and no interceptions. No one will mind if they play each other again, in Super Bowl LIII. Dec. 30: With an 89-yard touchdown pass to Demarcus Robinson in the final regular-season game, Mahomes becomes the second quarterback, after Manning in 2013, to throw for 5,000 yards and 50 touchdowns in the same season.Teams combine to score 1,371 touchdowns, the most in an N.F.L. season, while scoring 11,952 points (46.7 per game), the second-most in league history. They also combine to set season marks for passer rating (92.9), completion percentage (64.9 percent) and touchdown passes (847). For the first time since 2011, and only the fourth time over all, three teams average at least 30 points: the Chiefs, the Rams and the Saints. According to Mike Clay of ESPN, offenses use a personnel package of three receivers, one running back and one tight end on a league-record 72 percent of pass plays, exceeding the previous high of 69 percent set last season.Jan. 15, 2019January 2019The aerial explosion enveloping the N.F.L. sends teams scurrying for coaches who can mold desultory offenses into the next Chiefs, Patriots, Rams or Saints. Coaches, in other words, like McVay. Eight jobs open, and of the six hires that have been announced, five have offensive backgrounds, including Green Bay’s Matt LaFleur, who spent the 2017 season as McVay’s offensive coordinator, and Arizona’s Kingsbury, who developed Mahomes at Texas Tech. The Cincinnati Bengals are expected to hire Zac Taylor, Goff’s quarterback coach, after the Rams’ season ends. Ben Shpigel is a sports reporter and has covered the N.F.L. and the New York Jets since 2011. He has also covered the New York Yankees and, before that, the Mets. He previously worked for The Dallas Morning News.  @benshpigel AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyA federal judge on Friday, in a closely watched case, opened the way for college football and basketball players to receive more compensation than they do now, but narrowly limited the benefits to expenses “related to education.”The ruling was somewhat of a victory for the athletes but fell well short of their goal of eliminating the N.C.A.A.’s cap on their compensation, which the organization has argued is vital to maintaining a semblance of amateurism in college sports.In the ruling in Federal District Court in Oakland, Calif., Judge Claudia Wilken determined that amateurism rules barring payment beyond scholarships and certain related costs of education violate antitrust law.Schools, she said, can compensate athletes for education-related expenses such as postgraduate scholarships, tutoring, study abroad, and computers and musical instruments. Individual conferences could cap these payments.But in a ruling of more than 100 pages, Judge Wilken also supported the N.C.A.A.’s claim that students should not become professionals while playing for school teams.“The court does credit the importance to consumer demand of maintaining a distinction between college sports and professional sports,” she said in Friday’s ruling. “In addition to the fact that college sports are played by students actually attending the college, student-athletes are not paid the very large salaries that characterize the professional sports leagues that many student-athletes aspire to.”Still, rather than settle the matter, the decision seemed likely to continue the debate. She stayed the ruling pending appeals.Jeffrey Kessler, a prominent sports lawyer who represented the college athletes, a group of football and basketball players, called the ruling a win, while acknowledging that it stopped short of his clients’ full goals.“It’s just going be a big step forward, and not the full bringing down of the edifice,” he said.The ruling, he added, “will create a whole litany of benefits for the athletes.”“And as I say, that’s terrific,” he continued. “We had hoped we could get an even greater opening of the market. But as I said, one step at a time.”In a statement, the N.C.A.A.’s counsel, Donald Remy, said the association would “explore our next steps.” In tightly limiting her ruling, he said, the judge clearly acknowledged that “college sports should be played by student-athletes, not by paid professionals.”“The decision,” he added, “acknowledges that the popularity of college sports stems in part from the fact that these athletes are indeed students, who must not be paid unlimited cash sums unrelated to education.” He also noted that “the court rejected the plaintiffs’ desire for a free-market system.”Several years ago, a federal appeals court, in overturning Judge Wilken in a previous case, allowed college athletes to be paid for the use of their names, images and likenesses in video games and other media, but limited the amounts.In a sign of her wrestling with the issue, Judge Wilken signaled she might endorse another way, in which the N.C.A.A. might allow colleges to reward athletes’ academic progress financially, up to the value currently permitted for performance-related bonuses. (For instance, the N.C.A.A. allows championship rings worth no more than a few hundred dollars each.) This, Mr. Kessler suggested, could be a way to annually get thousands of dollars more to athletes.The players had asked Judge Wilken to bar the N.C.A.A. from restricting pay to athletes outright, letting individual conferences set any limits. Failing that, they wanted her to uncap certain bonuses that athletes are allowed to be paid.Judge Wilken rebuffed these requests.She did so while brushing aside many of the college sports establishment’s cherished arguments in favor of amateurism. The notion that paying college athletes more decreases demand for college sports, she said, was belied by the plaintiffs’ expert testimony as well as the fact that college athletes have been paid thousands of dollars more in the past few years — partly thanks to her ruling in the previous case — without affecting ratings and interest.She also acknowledged the stark economic reality that advocates for players frequently cite: that “the extraordinary revenues that defendants derive from these sports” demonstrate that capping players’ compensation at scholarships and related costs “is not commensurate with the value that they create.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNSam Trabucco gives us a weekend workout.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I’ll get to the clues quickly today because I thought there were so many sticklers, but this puzzle was very twinny, or crossy, for me — lots of paired entries. Some of them had something in common, some were nigh impossible to complete, some combined to aid me greatly, but this facet was one of the takeaways for me today.As always, I loved Sam Trabucco’s style and got a kick out of his cluing and most of today’s nine debuts. (The meh ones were I COULDN’T and HOME CARE, not that there’s anything wrong with either one, they just weren’t remarkable. Certainly not a constructor’s fault.)The first clues that delighted me were VILA and VANILLI, which I would call a personal reverse Natick, since I was able to ink them in with total confidence. I misremembered Bob Vila as a character on a sitcom, “Home Improvement,” not an educational show, “Home Again,” but I’m still a little afraid to get on a ladder — no D.I.Y. expert here. I also misremembered the whole Milli Vanilli story, which turned very tragic, but their music is very embedded in my mind with my college experience, so any mention makes me pleasantly nostalgic (this is only the second time we’ve seen VANILLI, and it’s been more than 20 years). My college memories are free of PEP BANDS, by the way, which was also a debut. After picking through much of the upper right, my letters spread south and west, petering out at the lower left corner, which stumped me most. There was tough stuff, though, throughout this whole grid.A couple of misdirections I was fond of were clues for ESP and GLAND, and there were fun clues galore. ARIE, clued as such, made me grimace for a second, but I didn’t dwell on it.13A: I thought “overrode” had to be the thing here, for “Domineered,” and rolled my eyes a little at OVERBORE, which doesn’t strike me as a word. Wrong! It has even been in the puzzle before, multiple times. I was not overbored by this grid today, Mr. Trabucco, I feel you went quite overboard to amuse us. 15A: I am pre-nostalgic for the group in question here, the modern and still-existent GORILLAZ. This is one of those very insidery double clues, by the way; one of the founders of GORILLAZ is Damon Albarn, who is also in Blur, one of the bands mentioned in the crossing clue at 4D. I actually knew this, but I didn’t think of him as a poster child for BRITPOP (even though he is, as I learned once I consulted the world); I also had always assumed that GORILLAZ was a hipster misspelling of “guerrillas,” not anything to do with the Monkees. So there’s another bit of critical life information we’ve acquired today. I had never actually seen the humans behind the band in question, because they are often represented by cartoon characters, even when I’ve seen videos of them performing live.16A: Right after a 21st-century pop music reference, bam! An abstruse compendium of world literary figures like Jeppe Aakjaer, a novelist who “was intensely concerned with social misery and the need for reform.” BENET’S Reader’s Encyclopedia was first edited, in 1948, by William Rose Benét, older brother of Stephen Vincent. There was an edition in 2008; there may be one in the works right now.44A: In a rebuttal to the old “Plus ça change” argument, some aficionados among you may find it bemusing that this word, LICTORS, and its singular variant, were considered entries for early in the week, including a Monday puzzle back in 1954 (clued as “Fasces bearer in ancient Rome”). I was inordinately stumped by this entry and hit a dead end at its crossing with 45D, too, as I knew nothing of California’s Fort ORD. That little filler word is usually clued as an airport. 7D: It felt as if the four 12-letter entries in this puzzle split into pairs, with this one, the punnily clued DRAMA COACHES, crossing IM SPEECHLESS.8D, which referenced the top entry on a Sports Illustrated list that I had certainly heard about but never examined, was one half of the other pair of 12-letter entries. The entry here is MIRACLE ON ICE — the unlikely 1980 Olympic hockey victory that was all rife with Cold War gravitas and rah rah United States patriotism. I’m just not familiar, except that I worked with one of the Times reporters who covered it, the perspicacious Craig Whitney, and he was still telling pretty riveting stories 25 years later in the newsroom. (It looks as if he took some part in a documentary, in case this event is also your No. 1 and you want more, more, more.)As far as 27A, the 12-letter entry crossing the above, this idiom made me think of my No. 1 “moment in sports history,” which was at 13 on the Sports Illustrated list. Can a horse PUT ON A CLINIC? It’s not like we could ask any of the rivals he left far, far behind in the dust; they would just shake their heads and murmur “neigh.” Is it silly that I get a little teary whenever I see Secretariat looking as if he could have soared 10 more miles with a sack of potatoes on his back?It took me forever to get the middle of this grid to work, to the point where I’m thrilled with how it turned out (ARIE and EERO notwithstanding). Often with this sort of design, though, you get the middle to work and then find that one of the corners won’t cooperate — I was happy to skate by here, though I’m not exactly in love with the SW (it’s certainly less colorful than I’d hope for, and LICTORS is a bit of a deep cut).I’m not one to include a ton of sports stuff in a crossword, so consider this grid with its skiing, hockey, football and ESPN references to be an anomaly. Sports are more my dad’s speed, so it’s a fun coincidence that it’s his birthday today! Happy birthday! I hope this crossword puzzle makes up for all the sports I quit during elementary school.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?AdvertisementSuper Bowl liiiA knee injury took away one of the Rams’ most consistent options on offense. He joins a fraternity of players forced to sit out their first Super Bowl.CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanATLANTA — To miss a Super Bowl because of an injury is bad enough. To have it happen in your first Super Bowl seems especially cruel. In the case of Cooper Kupp, the standout slot receiver for the Los Angeles Rams, it’s hard to say whether the anguish this weekend  will be greater for him or for his team. Kupp, 25, entered his second season as one of the Rams’ top three wide receivers, alongside Brandin Cooks and Robert Woods, but in the team’s 5-0 start he emerged as the one quarterback Jared Goff would look for when things got particularly difficult.  Kupp earned that trust by catching 75 percent of the passes thrown his way and scoring five touchdowns in those five games. But on Sunday, as the Rams try to beat the New England Patriots and win the franchise’s first championship since the 1999 season, Kupp will be reduced to a spectator. A knee sprain cost him most of Weeks 6 through 8 and a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee, which he sustained in Week 10, ended his season.  Several high-profile players, like Carson Wentz, Von Miller and Jeremy Shockey, have found themselves in the same position in recent years, all feeling a deep sense of loss even as they tried to share their teammates’ joy.Kupp, a third-generation N.F.L. player — his grandfather, Jake, was a guard in the 1960s and 1970s, and his father, Craig, a backup quarterback in the early 1990s — has plenty of emotional support, and while he is staying away from the team’s official media appearances this week, he is with the Rams in Atlanta, which is not always a given for injured players.While Los Angeles still has plenty of stars on offense, there is no getting around what the team lost when Kupp went down for the season.The numbers are fairly stark. Goff had completed 68.4 percent of his passes through Week 10 and had a passer rating of 113. In the six regular-season games Goff played after Kupp’s injury, those numbers were reduced to 59.8 percent and 83.9. Cooks and Woods remained viable threats, but the shuffling of roles created some disarray, and Josh Reynolds, who stepped in as the third receiver, could not match Kupp’s reliability. There was a sense that without Kupp, the Rams went from invincible to merely great.Coach Sean McVay put things fairly bluntly to reporters shortly after Kupp’s injury. “Anytime you lose a player of Cooper’s caliber and what he’s meant to our offense, you don’t replace guys like that,” McVay said.But the Rams are in the Super Bowl anyway. Woods, who has largely assumed Kupp’s role in the offense,  said he felt it was important for Kupp to be included in everything leading up the game because he is a big reason the team got this far. Woods has a fairly simple idea about how the Rams can  make up for the frustration that Kupp undoubtedly feels: “We’ve got to get him a ring.”Players miss the Super Bowl as a result of injuries every year. Some stars have made it back to the big game; other have not. Here is a look at some other high-profile players who had to deal with being sidelined in their first shot at the sport’s ultimate honor. Super Bowl LIIThe Eagles’ run to a Super Bowl victory over the Patriots last year was fueled by outrage about being declared underdogs, in large part because Wentz, the Philadelphia quarterback and a candidate for the N.F.L.’s Most Valuable Player Award, was lost for the season after he tore a knee ligament in Week 13. With Wentz, the Eagles had been considered a favorite to win the championship.In the weeks leading up to the Eagles’ 41-33 triumph over New England, the players and coaches rallied around the backup quarterback, Nick Foles, wearing rubber dog masks and relishing the idea that no one believed in them. Wentz did his best to project happiness for his teammates’ Cinderella story, while not attempting to hide his own frustration.“Every time the offense comes on the field on Sunday, it’s tough,” Wentz said of the games he missed. “It hits me a little bit. But then I’m in it. I love these guys, and I’m a part of this team as much as anybody else.”The assumption was that Wentz would step back into his role as the team’s starting quarterback this season and that Philadelphia could be even stronger. Instead, the Eagles slipped into the playoffs behind Foles, not Wentz, who was sidelined by a fractured vertebra after Week 14. Foles and the team lost in the divisional round of the playoffs. The Eagles have emphatically committed to Wentz going forward, but his absence from a second playoff run muddied the waters somewhat for the team’s fans. Super Bowl XLVIIIThat Miller’s career survived the 2013 season is still a thing of wonder. The No. 2 pick in the 2011 draft, Miller was phenomenal in his first two seasons, totaling 30 sacks. The outside linebacker began his third season under suspension after violating the N.F.L.’s substance abuse policy and ended it by tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee in Week 16. He was regularly accused of being a distraction, and he had to watch from the sidelines as his teammates were trounced by the Seahawks, 43-8, in the Super Bowl. Plenty of players have had their careers derailed by similar issues, but Miller, with support from his family and his team, found a way to get  back on track.It took Miller just two seasons to get another shot at the Super Bowl.“It’s another chance at greatness,” he said of his team making it to Super Bowl 50 against the Carolina Panthers three years ago. “It doesn’t come around often. We got another chance.”He took full advantage of that chance, ruining Cam Newton’s day and earning the Super Bowl M.V.P. award. Super Bowl XLVThe Steelers had won two Super Bowls in the previous five seasons and were looking like something of a dynasty. Drafting 18th in 2010, the team selected Pouncey, a center who stepped in as a starter from Day 1 and earned a Pro Bowl spot for his exceptional play.Pouncey, who was just 21 at the time, was on track to become one of the youngest starters in Super Bowl history, but he injured an ankle in Pittsburgh’s win over the Jets in the A.F.C. championship game, forcing the Steelers to scramble to replace him.“I say we have two weeks to maybe try and fool everybody and get Maurkice’s brother in here and no one would know,” Ben Roethlisberger said in reference to Maurkice’s twin brother, Mike, also an N.F.L. lineman. Roethlisberger added, “I don’t think that’s going to work.”The Steelers ultimately lost the Super Bowl, 31-25, to Aaron Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers, and Pouncey, despite a nine-year career that has included two first-team All-Pro selections and seven Pro Bowl selections, has yet to get another chance at the big game. Super Bowl XLIIShockey was in his sixth year with the Giants when the team unexpectedly made a run to the Super Bowl in the 2007 season. Shockey had been a key part of the team’s offense from his first day in the N.F.L., averaging 62 catches and 705 yards a season from the tight end position, but his 2007 season ended when he broke his fibula in Week 15.Some pundits said the Giants played better without the brash tight end, an assessment that did not sit well with Mathias Kiwanuka, a defensive end who also missed the team’s dramatic 17-14 upset of the previously undefeated Patriots. “That guy, he put his heart and soul into the organization for a long time,” Kiwanuka said. “He was a vocal leader, an energy guy, and he was kind of the face and voice of this team for a long time. So for guys to say, and people here to say, we are better off without him as a player, it stings a lot, especially when you play as hard as he did.”Shockey never played for the Giants again. The team traded him to the New Orleans Saints in the off-season. Things turned out fine for both sides: Shockey caught a touchdown pass for the Saints in their Super Bowl XLIV win, and the Giants upset the Patriots again in Super Bowl XLVI.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuA rancorous fight between John Schnatter, the former chairman of the Papa John’s pizza chain, and the company he founded appears to have been resolved, with Mr. Schnatter agreeing to give up his board seat after he helps choose an acceptable successor.In a settlement laid out in a securities filing on Tuesday, Mr. Schnatter and the company moved toward ending the dispute, which has simmered since his acrimonious departure in July as the leader of one of the world’s largest pizza delivery chains.Mr. Schnatter exited after a report that he had used a racial slur in a comment about black people, a statement he subsequently said in court had been mischaracterized and was actually “anti-racist.”The company, which Mr. Schnatter started about 35 years ago, quickly scrubbed his ubiquitous image from marketing and other corporate materials and evicted him from Papa John’s headquarters in Louisville, Ky.Mr. Schnatter, who is Papa John’s largest shareholder, later said he had been forced to step down and called for an investigation into the circumstances surrounding his departure. The company quickly adopted defensive measures to guard against a hostile takeover attempt. The showdown prompted Mr. Schnatter, who kept his board seat after resigning as chairman, to sue the company multiple times.In the securities filing, Papa John’s said Mr. Schnatter had effectively agreed to break his ties to the company by relinquishing his board seat after a successor is selected and to not seek re-election. He will also drop two lawsuits he filed against the company over internal documents and a sublease agreement.The company said it would jettison a provision of the so-called poison pill it adopted last summer that limited Mr. Schnatter’s communications with shareholders. Papa John’s also agreed to give Mr. Schnatter the records he sought and left him with the right to sue the company again if the documents showed wrongdoing.Before his resignation as chairman, Mr. Schnatter in 2017 had stepped down as chief executive after drawing fire for saying the National Football League’s handling of player protests against racism and police brutality was to blame for a slump in Papa John’s sales. The company had a sponsorship deal with league, which it later gave up.In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Schnatter said the agreement with Papa John’s would help “avoid a costly and expensive proxy contest by identifying a mutually acceptable and independent director.”The company’s stock rose 5 percent on Tuesday. It had lost more than a third of its value since Mr. Schnatter made his comments about the N.F.L.Sales at North American stores open at least a year fell 7.3 percent last year, Papa John’s said last week. The company has predicted that sales in the region would drop as much as 5 percent this year, in part because of negative publicity and consumer sentiment linked to Mr. Schnatter.The activist investor Starboard Value said last month that it would invest $200 million in Papa John’s, with an option to invest $50 million more. In connection with the investment, Starboard’s chief executive, Jeffrey Smith, who is known for revitalizing Olive Garden’s parent company, Darden Restaurants, became the pizza chain’s chairman.Mr. Schnatter said the agreement with his former company would allow Mr. Smith’s team to “help Papa John’s regain its strength and market position.”An earlier version of this article misstated when Starboard Value said it would invest $200 million in Papa John’s. It was last month, not this month.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementThe CarpetbaggerDirector Ryan Coogler and his female department heads helped bring “Black Panther” to life. Will they get the credit they’re due?Ryan Coogler with some of his “Black Panther” department heads: from left, the cinematographer Rachel Morrison, the costume designer Ruth E. Carter and the production designer Hannah Beachler.CreditCreditRozette Rago for The New York TimesSupported byBy Kyle BuchananOn a Thursday evening in October, as the Oscar campaign for “Black Panther” began to unfurl, Kathleen Kennedy took the microphone in a packed room of award voters. The Lucasfilm president had volunteered to host a reception for “Black Panther” at the London hotel in West Hollywood, and her eyes alighted on the 32-year-old director Ryan Coogler.“Ryan Coogler’s dreams and courage have made ‘Black Panther’ one of the most significant films to be released in the last decade,” said Kennedy, who noted that the critically acclaimed superhero movie has grossed well over a billion dollars, smashing preconceived notions of how a black-led blockbuster could be received across the world.“Ryan, you are a good man with a good heart,” Kennedy said, quoting from the film. “And it’s hard for a good man to be a king.”Several feet away, Coogler’s wife, Zinzi, and the Marvel Studios head Kevin Feige beamed with pride. Coogler, on the other hand, looked like he wanted to sink through the floor.A few days later, when I met Coogler for coffee, he burst out laughing at the memory of his modesty. “It’s easier to listen to compliments about somebody else,” he said. Indeed, Michael B. Jordan told me that he and his “Black Panther” co-star Lupita Nyong’o take constant delight in praising Coogler to his face, “just to make him squirm.”Other directors might bask in accolades, but Coogler, a high school football star who switched vocations in college to pursue a film career, has never quite shaken the humility drilled into him by sports. “It’s so rare to get compliments from your coaches,” he said. “You’re kind of trained to not hear that, and even on a touchdown, you want to hear your coach say, ‘You should have stuck your foot down earlier than you did.’”When it comes to award season, Coogler is of two minds on the subject. “You don’t ever want to get too comfortable sitting in rooms and listening to people telling you how great the work is,” he said. At the same time, Coogler is aware that if “Black Panther” scores major Oscar nominations, it could open the door for more directors of color. To what extent should he play the game?Coogler’s friend, the director Ava DuVernay, said, “Many of us are conflicted about what award season is and what it means, even more so when we tell stories of a certain kind, and when we’re filmmakers of a certain kind.” Only a handful of black directors have been nominated for an Academy Award, and never more than one in the same year.This season, another prominent contender is the “BlacKkKlansman” director Spike Lee, an idol of Coogler’s with whom he could make Oscar history. Still, the fact that Lee has never before been nominated for a best director Oscar says plenty about why Coogler is justifiably wary of award season and why, it’s rumored, he turned down the invitation to become an academy member himself. (When asked about it, he wouldn’t say.)Just a few years ago, Coogler and Jordan earned Oscar buzz for their “Rocky” revival “Creed,” yet the only person nominated from the film was Sylvester Stallone, one of 20 all-white acting nominees in 2016, the second consecutive year of #OscarsSoWhite. Decision makers at the academy have taken great pains since then to diversify membership, but will they come around on Coogler?Despite the fact that he has made a landmark film, organizations like the Golden Globes and the Directors Guild of America have so far excluded the “Black Panther” director from their final five. True to form, Coogler is less concerned with his own chances and would rather take advantage of this award season to tout the contributions of his crew, many of whom would also make history if they find favor with Oscar.“I’m not a painter or a novelist — I work in an art form where I have a lot of help,” Coogler said. “I’ve got hundreds of people helping bring this film to life, and a lot of people on the street don’t know that.”MOST SUPERHERO MOVIES only have one significant role for a woman, and that is another mold that “Black Panther” is happy to break: Though the film’s lead is T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman), the young king of Wakanda seeks the counsel of many wise women around him, providing Nyong’o, Danai Gurira, Letitia Wright and Angela Bassett with prominent parts.Coogler, too, likes to surround himself with accomplished women, and the crew of “Black Panther” is unusual among blockbusters for its large number of female department heads. They include the director of photography Rachel Morrison and production designer Hannah Beachler, who both worked on Coogler’s first feature, “Fruitvale Station,” as well as Ruth E. Carter, the veteran costume designer responsible for Wakanda’s striking looks.“We liked to joke that we were his Dora Milaje,” said Morrison, referring to T’Challa’s female bodyguards. “Me and Hannah would probably both take a bullet for him.”The 40-year-old Morrison, who became the first woman ever nominated for a cinematography Oscar last year, for “Mudbound,” is also the first female director of photography to work on a Marvel Studios film. Beachler, 48, was the first woman to work as a production designer for the superhero studio.“I loved looking around every day at all these women in positions we’ve worked so hard to get to,” Beachler said. “Because of that, we worked extra hard for Ryan and for the opportunity we’d been given, but we can do this. We are professionals alongside our male counterparts.”The 58-year-old Carter has been working as a costume designer since Spike Lee’s 1988 film, “School Daze,” yet the many female department heads of “Black Panther” felt to her like the start of something new.“We cut past any of the normal bureaucracy of male dominance, where they may want to overtake the conversation or need to be leader of the idea,” Carter said, praising Coogler’s willingness to listen to women. “You don’t have to be overbearing to get your point to him — he’s open in that way. With that calmness and humility, the gate opens: ‘Hello, I have this to offer.’”Coogler is quick to duck credit for employing so many women in major roles. “In each one of the circumstances where I’ve worked with these incredible filmmakers that happen to be women, they were the best people for the job,” he said. Then why is it so hard for other directors to follow suit? “I don’t know that I get it myself,” Coogler said. “If you aren’t opening up to find people who are truly the best, then that can limit you.”While the rest of Hollywood tries to make its film sets look more like the real world by employing inclusion riders, Coogler has simply hired diverse crews and casts all along. With collaborators like Morrison and Beachler, as well as actors like Jordan, Coogler sees what they have to offer and makes the industry see, too. “But if you think that’s easy, you don’t know anything about Hollywood,” DuVernay said.She noted that even before “Black Panther,” Coogler was using “Fruitvale Station” and “Creed” to center black men who are not periphery players but heroes, lovers, fathers and sons — a rarity in this industry. “He has this effortless thing about him,” said DuVernay, “this breezy quality that makes people feel comfortable even though he’s pushing the envelope inside a system that does not make it easy to tell those kinds of stories.”Carter has another way of describing the director. “He comes from Oakland, he wears his high fade with locs on the top, and he plays football so he has an athletic build, but he is a gentle spirit,” she said. “And a gentle soul is not something we’re accustomed to celebrating in black men.”THERE ARE ALL sorts of ways to make a movie. Many directors are notorious screamers, and even some of the most respected auteurs in Hollywood direct defensively, as though the other people on set might water down their vision instead of contributing to it.Coogler goes about things differently. “My experience is that most directors who lead with ego are not so secretly very insecure or self-conscious,” Morrison said. “Ryan’s comfortable in his own skin and confident in who he is, and that allows him to turn to his D.P. and ask what she thinks of the script, or ask the writer what he thinks of the cinematography.”“For Ryan, it’s important to have a lot of different perspectives around the table, not just his,” said Beachler. She recalled a moment on “Black Panther” when a line gave her pause and Coogler suspended shooting the scene to discuss her concerns. “He took the time to make sure I felt good about it, and safe,” Beachler said. “And that does not happen on other sets.”For Coogler, this approach is common sense. “The more angles you have when you’re making something, the more it helps the film cut through, in my opinion,” Coogler told me. “I think that’s why this is made for the audience, at the end of the day: Film is a collective experience.”It’s been that way for Coogler ever since he grew up in the Bay Area, when his parents would throw movie-marathon house parties for him, his two brothers, and their cousins. “I was watching high-quality stuff at an early age,” Coogler said, crediting his mother, Joselyn, for helping him become a cinephile. “We used to joke and call her IMDb, because before IMDb even came out, she used to say, ‘You see that actress there in the back corner? She played this person in that TV show.’”When Coogler speaks about the crucial people who have helped him develop as a filmmaker, many of them are women, including his wife, Zinzi, who weighs in on casting decisions, and a college teacher, Rosemary Graham, who encouraged Coogler to take up screenwriting and still reads many of his drafts. According to Jordan, his longtime friend and muse, giving female perspectives priority is a throughline that began in Coogler’s childhood and extends throughout his work.“The strongest warriors in Wakanda are the women, and the smartest,” Jordan noted, likening that lineage to the matriarchies found in many African-American communities. “That’s how it is in our households and our culture, and that’s what our family dynamic is made out of.”Even today, Coogler continues to live in the Bay Area near his parents. “I’m thankful to have a big family that’s still honest with me,” he said, noting that “Black Panther” pivots on the conflict between T’Challa and Jordan’s orphaned Killmonger, both of whom he can sympathize with. “The fundamental difference between those two characters,” Coogler said, “is that one grew up with a community that loved him and nurtured him, and the other had the opposite.”Having been so nurtured, perhaps it’s no surprise that Coogler wants to pay it forward. In 2007, Coogler, about to begin film school at the University of Southern California, told the East Bay Times about what he hoped to achieve in Hollywood. Instead of settling down in Los Angeles someday, his goal was to bring the film industry back to the impoverished parts of Richmond and Oakland, where he grew up.“It will be something the people can point to and kids can see it, saying, ‘I can do that,’” the young Coogler said then.As my coffee with Coogler concluded, I pulled the article up on my phone and noted that at the end of “Black Panther,” this is exactly what T’Challa does. After grappling with the Oakland-born Killmonger and coming to understand the crucible he was forged in, the young king flies to his defeated enemy’s home city, where he starts a high-tech outreach center that will inspire the community. By making “Black Panther,” then, Coogler has moved through T’Challa to realize a long-held goal.As I told him that, Coogler blinked. “That’s a lot,” he said, having never considered the connection. “That’s a lot.”And then he let out a laugh. It was a laugh I’d heard Coogler deploy every time he was paid a compliment, a laugh he uses when he doesn’t know how else to react. And then, after letting himself take in the idea for just a moment, Coogler moved on.“Hopefully, there’s more to do,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated the age of the production designer Hannah Beachler. She is 48, not 51.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne Searcey and Mike IvesLike any major international flight, the plane was packed with passengers from across the world. This one had professors from Kenya, aid workers from Ethiopia, a career ambassador from Nigeria and a fisheries consultant from Britain.Some were heading to job training, others to an environmental conference. Some were simply going home.All were passengers on Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, which crashed on Sunday shortly after takeoff, killing the 157 on board and raising questions about the safety of the aircraft model, the Boeing 737 Max 8.On Monday, as the identities of more victims were reported, heartache rippled through convention halls, classrooms and living rooms across the globe. Tributes flowed on social media. Colleagues observed moments of silence.The campus of Kenyatta University in Kenya mourned the death of Isaac Mwangi, a lecturer in the department of education, communication and technology, and Agnes Gathumbi, a director of teacher professional development.Dr. Mwangi wrote dissertations on using technology in secondary education and worked on projects related to integrating images and graphics into the teaching of poetry.He was “diligent and proactive,” Olive Mugenda, a former vice chancellor at the university who worked with Dr. Mwangi, wrote on Twitter.Dr. Gathumbi published dozens of papers, including one on how administrators react differently to graffiti scrawled by girls instead of boys. She had received certifications in French, African storybook writing, computer studies and other areas from institutions across the world.Hussein Swaleh, the 52-year-old former head of the governing body for Kenyan soccer, was also among those who died on the flight, according to Barry Otieno, the federation’s head of communications.“It’s a sad day for football in Kenya, very sad day,” said Mr. Otieno. “We were looking to roll out a youth development football tournament for the future of youth and football in the country, we had a lot planned.”Thirty-two Kenyans died on the flight, more than from any other country.China was the first major country to ground the jets. The U.S. was last.James Macharia, the transport secretary, said the government was working to get the family members to Ethiopia so they could identify the bodies.Six members of an Ontario-based family were among the victims. Peel District School Board said in a statement that students Ashka and Anushka Dixit were traveling on the flight with their parents and grandparents, who were not named.Aid workers were also killed in the crash. Four were employees of Catholic Relief Services, all of them Ethiopian citizens traveling to Nairobi for training.“Although we are in mourning, we celebrate the lives of these colleagues and the selfless contributions they made to our mission, despite the risks and sacrifices that humanitarian work can often entail,” the organization said in a statement.In Nigeria, the government confirmed the death of Abiodun Bashua, a former ambassador who had been working with the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa.He joined the Nigerian foreign service in 1976 and worked in several countries, including Austria, Ivory Coast and Iran, according to the Nigerian Foreign Ministry. He also worked with the United Nations on peacekeeping operations and climate change issues.Two Spaniards were on the flight. Jordi Dalmau Sayol, 46, was a Catalan chemical engineer who was on a business trip. He was working for a water infrastructure company that was awarded a water desalination project in Kenya, according to the Spanish daily La Vanguardia. Mr. Dalmau’s death was confirmed by his company.Pilar Martínez Docampo, 32, worked for an aid organization and was traveling to Kenya to give language classes to children, according to La Opinión, a newspaper in her home region of Galicia, in northwestern Spain. The authorities in her hometown, Cangas do Morrazo, confirmed her death.A day after the crash, a somber mood engulfed the United Nations headquarters in Nairobi, as politicians, environmentalists and government officials gathered for a major United Nations meeting on the environment — the United Nations Environment Assembly — a destination for many people on the flight. The meeting focused sustainable development and environmental challenges related to poverty, natural resources and waste management.Among the passengers were at least 22 people who worked for United Nations-affiliated agencies.The crash — of a flight that had been nicknamed the “U.N. shuttle” because of how often United Nations staff members take it — has highlighted the organization’s work in some of the world’s most troubled regions, from South Sudan to North Korea.The United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, offered “heartfelt condolences” to the loved ones of the United Nations staff members who died in the crash. He also said in an email to staff that flags at United Nations offices would fly at half-staff on Monday to honor the victims.Among the passengers traveling to the meeting was Victor Tsang, a gender expert from Hong Kong who worked for the United Nations Environment Program in Nairobi. According to his biography on the agency’s website, Mr. Tsang had worked in Chad, Ethiopia, Panama and South Sudan.A Twitter account that appears to be Mr. Tsang’s says that while he worked in sustainable development, his passion was camping with his 2-year-old son in his family’s garden.“Victor was so dedicated, and a dear colleague,” one of his former colleagues in Nairobi, Oona Tully, wrote on Twitter.The World Food Program said seven of its staff had died in the crash, the most of any United Nations organization. The program’s work focuses on widespread hunger caused by war or instability in Nigeria, South Sudan and Yemen, among other countries.“As we mourn, let us reflect that each of these W.F.P. colleagues were willing to travel and work far from their homes and loved ones to help make the world a better place to live,” David Beasley, the head of the program, said in a statement. “That was their calling.”The World Food Program victims included Ekta Adhikari of Nepal, who had worked for the program in Ethiopia; Michael Ryan of Ireland, who had helped Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh prepare for seasonal monsoons; and Zhen-Zhen Huang of China, who had worked in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.“I cannot imagine the loss felt by your loved ones, especially your son,” one of Ms. Huang’s colleagues, Faizza Tanggol, wrote on Twitter.The United Nations refugee agency, U.N.H.C.R., said three staff members had died: Nadia Adam Abaker Ali, 40, a Sudanese citizen; Jessica Hyba, 43, from Canada; and Jackson Musoni, 31, from Rwanda.Ms. Ali, who leaves a husband and 6-year-old daughter, was a health specialist who joined the agency in Sudan eight years ago, helping people who fled conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region.Mr. Musoni also worked in Sudan helping to coordinate operations in East Darfur. He had worked for Rwanda’s Foreign Ministry before joining the United Nations agency in 2014; he had three children, aged 8, 5 and 4, the refugee agency said.Ms. Hyba, a mother of two daughters aged 9 and 12, had joined the refugee agency in 2013 and had started a new post as its senior external relations officer in the Somali capital, Mogadishu, only last month.Other victims of the crash had been traveling to United Nations events. One was Sebastiano Tusa, an underwater archaeologist from Italy who had been traveling to Kenya for a Unesco conference about safeguarding underwater cultural heritage in Eastern Africa.Stéphanie Lacroix, originally from the northern Canadian mining town of Timmins, Ontario, was leading a four-person delegation of young Canadians heading to the environmental conference. The other three delegates, Danielle Moore, Micah Messent and Angela Rehhorn, also died in the crash.Ms. Lacroix graduated three years ago from the University of Ottawa with a degree in international development and globalization and was at the nonprofit association as part of a volunteer program, the Canada Service Corps.“These bright, young Canadians were an inspiration: compassionate leaders, dedicated to the conviction that they could build a better future for our country,” Patty Hajdu, the federal labor minister, said in a statement.Darcy Belanger, the director of professional development for the American operations of PCL, a large construction firm based in Edmonton, Alberta, was also attending the conference. He volunteered as the director of strategic initiatives for Parvati.org, an environmental group that, among other things, advocates to turn part of the Arctic into a protected international sanctuary.“He would boldly approach the highest-ranking officials to engage them,” the group said in a statement, “and humbly serve alongside any willing volunteer.”Joanna Toole, a United Nations fisheries consultant from southwestern England, had planned to attend the conference to represent the aquaculture department of the Food and Agriculture Organization.Two days before the flight she tweeted that she was happy to be among an increasing number of women working for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.Ms. Toole, 36, was from Exmouth, in the southwestern English region of Devon. The Exmouth Journal reported that she had attended a local community college before studying animal behavior at a university.“Everybody was very proud of her and the work she did. We’re still in a state of shock,” her father, Adrian Toole, told the local news site Devon Live. “Joanna was genuinely one of those people who you never heard a bad word about.”Ms. Toole, who had kept homing pigeons and pet rats as a child, often posted on social media about initiatives to protect animals from marine pollution and make the fishing industry more environmentally friendly.Mr. Toole’s next retweet was of a post by the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader.“We won’t bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace,” the Dalai Lama wrote. “We can’t expect change if we don’t take action.”Ian Austen, Raphael Minder, Elsie Chen, Luz Ding, Nick Cumming-Bruce and Emily Oduor contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bruce FrettsEven as “Glass” is expected to surpass “Aquaman” at the top of the box office next week, another superhero-themed movie looms: “Captain Marvel.” But the third preview for Marvel’s adventure packs a bit less power than its predecessors — or some of this week’s other new teasers.Marvel billed this 90-second ad, which premiered during the College Football Playoff championship game, as a “special look,” but much of the footage has already been seen in the film’s first two trailers. The new scenes feature banter about wardrobe between Brie Larson’s titular superheroine and “Avengers” series staple Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson). “Grunge is a good look for you,” he tells her — the film is set in 1995 — and she questions the wisdom of putting the S.H.I.E.L.D. logo on a hat: “Does announcing your identity on clothing help with the covert part of your job?” It’s a good thing nobody goes to these movies for the dialogue.“Something truly goddamn strange is going on!” art gallery owner Jake Gyllenhaal declares in the mesmerizing trailer for this surreal satire. He’s not kidding: A dead artist’s works take on supernatural powers, devouring their greedy owners. The director Dan Gilroy previously teamed with his real-life wife, Rene Russo, and Gyllenhaal on another dark media tale, “Nightcrawler” (2014), and “Velvet Buzzsaw” might be even creepier.The title could cause confusion with another coming Mads Mikkelsen movie — the outdoor-survival drama “Arctic” — but the tone could hardly be more different. In this graphic-novel adaptation, the Danish actor plays an aging assassin who’s forced out of retirement (aren’t they all?) by a squad of younger contract killers hired by his former employer. The stylish visuals and Mikkelsen’s eye patch make “Polar” look pretty cool.Dev Patel is a long way from “The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel” in this dramatization of the 2008 terrorist attacks on the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel in Mumbai. The trailer can’t seem to decide if it’s selling a harrowing docudrama or a “Die Hard”-style action thriller, and it’s unclear if the film focuses on Patel as a hotel employee or Armie Hammer as a guest. In any event, this clip doesn’t make “Hotel Mumbai” seem worth checking out.It’s the opposite of “Big.” Get it? Regina Hall (“Girls Trip”) stars as a tech exec who wakes up in the body of her gawky 13-year-old self (played by Marsai Martin of “black-ish”). The presence of Issa Rae — the creator of HBO’s acclaimed “Insecure” — heightens expectations, but they’re cut down by the trailer’s painfully strained gags.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThere are tough ways to lose, and there are tougher ways to lose. And then there’s what the Bears lived through on Sunday in front of their hometown fans when Cody Parkey missed a 43-yard game winning field goal in the dying seconds of their wild card playoff game against the Eagles.Think you’ve suffered as a fan? Here are some reasons the Bears now have you beat.It was so nearly good. The kick was inches away from success, striking the left upright. But even then it had a chance, descending to smack the crossbar and falling ... on the wrong side of it. Eagles 16, Bears 15.A slight adjustment by Parkey and it might have been good. Had Treyvon Hester of the Eagles not got a little piece of the ball, the trajectory would have been different, and it might have been good. Had the Eagles not called time out before the Bears’ first snap, had Parkey not gone ahead and kicked that one (and made it) ... any little thing could be the difference when the difference is inches.The previous standard-setter for kicking agony, Scott Norwood’s failed game-winner in Super Bowl XXV for the Bills, at least was a clean miss.“You can’t make this up,” Parkey said. “I feel terrible.”Parkey missed two field goals and two extra points against the Lions earlier in the season. Somehow all four of those misses hit the upright as well. In Week 17 he did it again against the Vikings.Earlier in the game, he had hit field goals of 36, 29 and 34 yards, accounting for 9 of the Bears 15 points.Chicago seemed poised for a solid playoff run. It was a 6-point favorite over Philadelphia, the biggest spread of the round. The Bears were 12-4 in the regular season and had won nine of their last 10, and had lost only one home game this season.Philadelphia had to win five of their last six to sneak into the playoffs at 9-7. Even then, the Eagles would have been out had the Vikings managed to win in the final week of the season. But the Vikings lost. To the Bears. Oops.The proud franchise was returning to the playoffs for the first time in eight years. After seasons with three and five wins, fans were convinced that young quarterback Mitch Trubisky was ready to bring that success.Well, two bangs off the goal post may be the N.F.L. record. But Ivan Perisic of Wolfsburg in the Bundesliga hit a shot in 2014 that struck the crossbar and both posts, for the major sports record of three.In the second most famous kicking incident in N.F.L. history (after Norwood’s wide right), Garo Yepremian of the Dolphins had a field goal attempt blocked in Super Bowl VII, then inexplicably picked it up and tried to pass it, resulting in a pick six that put the Redskins back in the game. But the incident is remembered fondly because of the comic sight of the undersized Yepremian trying to pass and because the Dolphins won the game to complete the N.F.L.’s only perfect season.It’s hard to see Bears fans remembering this game fondly.As the ball hurtled through the air, mascot Staley da Bear, carefully positioned right under the goal posts, lifted his arms to indicate “good.” When the kick was in fact not good, Staley fell over, flat on the ground, his feet in the air.Internet fans who weren’t so invested in the game quickly hailed Staley as the true hero of the moment, praising his comic timing. Perhaps there’s a silver lining after all.The Bears said they were “respectfully passing” on a request to interview Staley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressQuarterback Johnny Manziel, a former Heisman Trophy winner who fizzled in the N.F.L. and was kicked out of the Canadian Football League, signed with the Alliance of American Football on Saturday night and will join the Memphis Express.Manziel’s rights belonged to San Antonio of the spring league, but that team declined to sign him and Manziel was then free to join any of the other seven clubs. He was awarded through the A.A.F.’s waiver system to the Express, who have a league-worst 1-5 record.“We are pleased to welcome Johnny Manziel to Alliance of American Football, which we’ve always described as a league of opportunity for talented players to launch or revitalize their pro football careers,” the Alliance co-founder Bill Polian said in a statement released by the league.“We completed extensive background work to determine whether it would be appropriate for Johnny to play this season, and after consulting with many people familiar with his situation, we concluded that it would be good for him to resume his pro football career here at 5he Alliance.”Manziel is expected to report to the Express on Sunday. “Welcome to the 901 @JManziel2,” the team wrote on its official Twitter page.Manziel, the 2012 Heisman winner at Texas A&M, had his contract with the Montreal Alouettes terminated this off-season. The C.F.L. said that he violated his agreement with the league, but it has offered no specifics about the deal.Before he entered into negotiations with the Hamilton Tiger Cats last March, Manziel had to agree to several strict provisions, presumably because he had a history of substance abuse and arrests, including one related to accusations that he had struck a former girlfriend.Manziel, a first-round draft pick by Cleveland in 2014, totaled seven touchdowns and seven interceptions in 14 games, including eight starts, with the Browns, who released him in March 2016He was 2-6 as a starter with the Alouettes last season, completing 106 of 165 passes (64.2 percent) for 1,290 yards with five touchdowns and seven interceptions. He also ran for 215 yards on 29 carries as Montreal (5-13) missed the C.F.L. playoffs.In Memphis, the 26-year-old Manziel could have an opportunity to play quickly. Express quarterback Zach Mettenberger injured an ankle on Saturday and was unable to return to the team’s 22-9 loss at Salt Lake, and his status is uncertain.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Benjamin HoffmanATLANTA — “It’s getting exciting now,” Jim Nantz of CBS said in mock excitement in the second half of the Super Bowl on Sunday night.He was talking about a punt.Los Angeles Rams punter Johnny Hekker’s 65-yard roller set the record for longest Super Bowl punt, and through three quarters, with a score of a 3-3, it truly was the most exciting play.Nantz’s CBS broadcast partner, Tony Romo, the former Dallas Cowboys quarterback, had been the subject of much news coverage leading up to Sunday, mostly for his ability to predict plays and for the infectious enthusiasm he brings to his work.But by the time of Hekker’s punt almost halfway through the third quarter, the game’s dullness seemed to have broken even him.“This is hard to watch,” Romo said. “I mean, this is how many punts in a row?”For the Rams, it was the eighth consecutive possession ending in a punt. As Hekker’s kick from the end zone tumbled to the Patriots’ 29-yard line, Nantz mused that it could set the record.“Oh, you’ve been waiting for a stat like that,” Romo teased him.“That’s it!” Nantz yelled. “That’s the highlight of the game.”Hekker turned out to be the closest thing to a star the Rams could muster. A squad that finished the regular season as the second-highest-scoring team in football finished the Super Bowl without a touchdown, in a 13-3 loss to the New England Patriots.The collapse of the offense was not missed by the players who participated in the losing effort.“Last time I checked, defense wins championships,” C. J. Anderson, the Rams’ backup running back, said after a game in which his team managed just 57 total yards in the first half. “That saying has been in football for a long time.”The game, the lowest-scoring Super Bowl in N.F.L. history, was hardly one to remember for the Patriots offense, which plodded along to 407 yards and just one touchdown, but it offered no shortage of ways to sum up the Rams’ offensive ineptitude.■ The Rams ended all of their drives with punts until Greg Zuerlein kicked a field goal with 2 minutes 11 seconds left in the third quarter. Even that one could hardly be described as an offensive triumph, as Zuerlein, nursing a heel injury, had to connect from 53 yards out. In all, the Rams’ drive chart looked brutal: punt, punt, punt, punt, punt, punt, punt, punt, field goal, punt, interception, missed field goal.■ Todd Gurley, who led the N.F.L. with 21 total touchdowns this season, ran for just 35 yards on 10 carries and caught one pass for minus-1 yard. His plus-size backup, Anderson, ran for 22 yards on seven carries. Anderson credited the Patriots’ gap control with stopping both him and Gurley. “Obviously neither of us got going,” Anderson said, “so you’ve got to give it to New England on that.”■ Partly as a result of that stymied running game, Jared Goff, the team’s superstar third-year quarterback, spent the entire game running for his life. He may have been sacked just four times, but he was hit by a Patriots defender on 12 other plays. The constant pressure resulted in nearly all of his throws being rushed.■ It was the first time since Coach Sean McVay took over the team that the Rams were shut out in a first half, and it was just the second time in 36 games (including the playoffs) that they were held without a touchdown.■ Los Angeles never ran a play in the red zone. The team’s best effort got it to New England’s 27-yard line before Goff threw an interception that essentially handed the win to the Patriots.■ The Rams converted just 3 of 13 third-down plays.■ They were held below 300 total yards for just the second time this season.■ They were penalized for 65 yards and rushed for just 62.In all, that collection of offensive atrocities led to Hekker’s punting the ball nine times for 417 yards, only the third most in Super Bowl history, according to Pro-Football-Reference.com. Baltimore’s Kyle Richardson set the record with 430 in the Baltimore Ravens’ win over the Giants in Super Bowl XXXV. That game resulted in a whopping 852 combined punting yards, making this game’s 632 combined yards seem pedestrian.Hekker’s effort gave Nantz a record to tout, and it gave the punter’s family something to watch. But for the Rams, who came into the week as the leaders of the N.F.L.’s offensive revolution, the game offered little beyond disappointment.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherJames Kennedy wants you to know something about Rugby United New York right away. “We’re not the Knicks,” he said.Though New York City’s new professional rugby union team is an expansion team, he said, it will not wind up at the bottom of the standings like its basketball brother. Kennedy, the team’s owner and chairman, did not hedge when he spoke about the team’s chances in Major League Rugby. “We are certainly playoff bound,” he promised.And why not? The team is 4-1, having played only road games so far in a 16-game season, and is ready for its home opener, against the Toronto Arrows, on Friday night at MCU Park in Coney Island.New sports leagues — Major League Rugby is in its second year — have a habit of failing, and a professional rugby outfit would seem to be particularly perilous in a country where even many die-hard sports fans don’t know a scrum from a line-out.But Kennedy expects a good crowd on Friday and beyond. “I’d say we’ll average 4,500,” he said, adding that their first game in the 7,000-seat stadium was “close to a sellout.” The team could be helped by popular pricing: $20 to $35 a ticket.With confidence, Kennedy added, “We’re looking for a bigger stadium for a playoff game.” The top four finishers in the nine-team league make the playoffs.The television box is checked. Fans not eager to jump on the D or F train can see many of the games on CBS Sports Network, SNY or ESPN+.While rugby newcomers will hardly be turned away, Kennedy believes that a good chunk of the fans who turn up will be fairly savvy to the game. “In the tristate area, there are 283 rugby clubs,” he said. “There are 35,000 players who started in college or high school.” He expects the expatriate community to turn up, too.He described the league’s business model as “a direct copy” of Major League Soccer’s. Kennedy owns his team and also a piece of the league. “If a team or two fails, there’s money to keep it on its feet and then move it after the season,” he said.Finding players for a rugby team in a football country required a multipronged approach. The team held four combines. One discovery was outside center Seimou Smith of New Haven, who started as a football player at Southern Connecticut State before shifting to rugby. The team has also recruited overseas.That recruitment came easily, Kennedy said. “Some big names reached out and wanted to come to New York. That’s the lure of the city, not me.”The team hired Mike Tolkin, a New Yorker who coached the United States national team and at Xavier High School in Manhattan.“This only works if it’s a New York team,” Kennedy said. “We wanted to play within the city limits. If we find a New Yorker with 80 percent of the skills of a European, we’ll take the New Yorker.”Players will make $20,000 to $35,000 for the four-and-a-half-month season. Kennedy said that of the squad of 34, eight or nine were also working full time, many as teachers.One of those is Mike Petri, a scrum half and the team captain. A native Brooklynite who has played in three World Cups for the United States, he teaches science and coaches at Bay Ridge Prep in Brooklyn. “They are very supportive,” he said. “Sometimes I go from coaching baseball or basketball straight to rugby practice.”Petri, 34, retired in 2015, but the lure of a professional league in the United States brought him back. “The quality of play across the board is outstanding,” he said, citing fullback Ben Foden, who has played for top club teams and the England national team.“Compared to the New York A.C.,” a semipro club Petri has played for, “you get a high level of skill and a high rugby I.Q. It’s a faster game.”Like Kennedy, Petri is bullish on the league’s future. “It’s an organic growth,” he said. “We’re going to start with the existing fan base. The rugby community is so tight-knit. The thrill of being part of that group is tangible. And most people who watch their first rugby game are intrigued and get hooked.”And Kennedy has even bigger plans, arising in part from his background in construction. While acknowledging that options in the city are limited (just ask the New York City F.C. of M.L.S.), he said that in the longer term, “I would love to build a stadium a few years from now.”For now, though, it will be all about defeating the likes of the Houston SaberCats and the Glendale Raptors and lifting the Major League Rugby trophy.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPatriots 13, Rams 3By Ben ShpigelATLANTA — The New England Patriots’ dynasty began exactly 17 years ago Sunday, when the most fruitful partnership in N.F.L. history launched its transformation from plucky upstarts to league overlords. Coach Bill Belichick tamed the explosive Rams, and quarterback Tom Brady commanded an efficient offense.The Patriots commemorated the anniversary by securing another championship against the same franchise, in a similar way, for a title that represents not a bookend so much as an ellipsis. New England’s reign is as relentless as a downpour, and without precedent.The Patriots claimed their sixth title in 18 seasons by edging the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, in a slog of a Super Bowl LIII.[How the Patriots stifled the Rams, drive by drive.]Like their previous five Super Bowl victories under Belichick and Brady, Sunday’s was not decided until late, on Sony Michel’s 2-yard touchdown run with seven minutes left.One final stop — Stephon Gilmore’s interception near the goal line with 4 minutes 17 seconds remaining — punctuated a defensive effort that evoked Belichick’s first masterpiece against the Rams, when he sapped their potency by erasing the versatile back Marshall Faulk. Against this Rams team, the league’s second-ranked offense, New England forced punts on nine of 12 possessions and five three-and-outs.The Patriots’ performance will ricochet around their empire as Belichick’s magnum opus, but it will be remembered outside New England as a grind, lacking the offensive artistry that defined this record-setting season.We fly you through the scenes of two pivotal Super Bowl plays.It was as if after all the marks shattered — the most touchdowns scored, the most touchdown passes thrown — the ball decided, in the 267th and final game, that it was just too exhausted to breach the end zone anymore. It did so only once.These Rams and Patriots will be forever linked in Super Bowl ignominy: the fewest combined points, the lowest-scoring first half in 44 years (3 points), the most time elapsed without a touchdown. That stretch ended at the time when Brady asserts his primacy.All of Brady’s other championships have come after the score was tied, or the Patriots were trailing, in the fourth quarter. In those situations, Brady was 45 for 59 with 503 yards and three touchdowns and no interceptions. Taking over at his 31-yard line with 9:49 left, Brady connected on four straight passes for 67 yards, including a 29-yard beauty to Rob Gronkowski down the left side that preceded Michel’s touchdown, his sixth of the playoffs.“I’ll tell you this,” Gronkowski said, “it was the most satisfying year I’ve ever been a part of. How we came together, the obstacles we had to overcome, the grind from the beginning of training camp to now, it’s just surreal.”Brady, at age 41, finished 21 of 35 for 262 yards, with more than half of that total — 141 — going to Julian Edelman. A year after missing the Patriots’ Super Bowl loss to Philadelphia with a knee injury and being suspended for the first four games of this season for violating the N.F.L.’s policy on performance-enhancing drugs, Edelman was selected as the game’s most valuable player.“He just played the best game he has all year,” Brady said.In a league designed for parity, Brady and Belichick have destroyed it. Together, they have made nine Super Bowls, including the last three. The Miami Dolphins, from 1972-74, and Buffalo Bills, from 1991-94, accomplished that feat before the Patriots, but neither had New England’s staying power.Only one other franchise has won six Super Bowls, and it took the Pittsburgh Steelers 34 years to collect their Lombardi Trophies. The Patriots needed half as long.“We’ve never seen the likes of it; we’ll never see it again — ever,” the Super Bowl-winning coach Brian Billick said last week. “The league’s just not structured that way.”The Patriots’ infrastructure — owned, coached and quarterbacked by the same men during this run — and ruthless roster manipulation gives them a chance every season to extend the dynasty. Rarely, though, is that pathway linear.Belichick’s charge this season, as always, was to discern the identity of this team instead of recreating that of another one. The Patriots’ quest for self-discovery meandered through a pair of two-game losing streaks, three double-digit defeats and five road setbacks until, in late December, after falling at Pittsburgh, they found equilibrium.Complementing quick passing with power running, New England averaged 177.8 on the ground across its last five games. That approach powered the Patriots past two A.F.C. West behemoths, the Chargers and the Chiefs, and on Sunday it helped them gash the Rams for 154 yards, 94 from Michel. The lesson, as ever: The Patriots are not vulnerable so much as they are procrastinators, evolving before they can pounce.Back when Brady won his first Super Bowl, Sean McVay was a 16-year-old sophomore at the Marist School, 15 miles to the north of Mercedes-Benz Stadium. He is now, at 33, the youngest coach in the N.F.L., hired by the Rams two years ago, after they finished their first season back in Los Angeles as a bumbling mess, and tasked with shaping a winning team and energizing a fan base.One of McVay’s many aphorisms — Sean-isms, as they’re called — is “the standard is the standard.” The Rams won consecutive division titles, but as they gazed across the field Sunday they saw the personification of that standard, a team whose sustained success they hoped to emulate.Rams quarterback Jared Goff grew up watching Brady, like him a son of Northern California, while McVay exchanges text messages with Belichick. The mastermind outwitted the prodigy, and McVay knew it, blaming his play-calling and an absent feel for the game’s flow.“There’s no other way to say it,” McVay said. “I got out-coached tonight.”McVay surrounded himself with sharp assistants, including the defensive coordinator Wade Philips, who, when scheming against a quarterback like Brady, abides by a singular credo.“You can’t fool the great quarterbacks, anyway,” he said. “You have to outplay them.”In the A.F.C. championship game three years ago, when Phillips led the Broncos’ defense, Denver’s pass-rush pummeled Brady all game. Brady’s protection in the playoffs had been so good entering the Super Bowl — 90 dropbacks, no sacks, according to Pro Football Focus — that he posted to his Instagram story a photo of his jersey, white and pristine, and tagged his offensive linemen.Early on, the Rams’ coverage and pressure discombobulated New England. On his first pass, Brady’s wobbly throw was deflected, and then intercepted by Cory Littleton. On the Patriots’ next drive, they called two timeouts before Stephen Gostkowski hooked a 46-yard field goal, missing a kick in the Super Bowl for the third consecutive year. On the series after that, John Franklin-Myers strip-sacked Brady, but New England recovered the fumble.In a matchup of two of the N.F.L.’s four highest-scoring teams, nearly 20 minutes elapsed before Gostkowski scored the game’s first points, on a 42-yarder with 10:29 left before halftime. The Patriots’ 3-0 lead — which signified the fewest first-half points scored in a Super Bowl since Pittsburgh led Minnesota, 2-0, in 1975 — did not seem insurmountable. But it did increase the likelihood that Belichick, aided by the defensive play-caller Brian Flores, again had concocted a strategy to foil a prolific offense in the Super Bowl. (Flores, 37, is expected to become the coach of the Miami Dolphins this week.)As Belichick did against the 1990 Bills, when he worked for the Giants, and the 2016 Falcons, who did not score for the final 25 minutes of regulation and overtime, he silenced the Rams like no other team since McVay took over.Patriots linebacker Kyle Van Noy said the defense was focused on taking Goff, just 24, out of the game.“I think we felt if we stopped the run and put it into his hands, it played in our advantage,” Van Noy said.In 35 previous games under McVay, the Rams had never been held scoreless at halftime. On Sunday they gained 57 yards, their fewest in a first half this season — or 36 fewer than Edelman, who shredded the Rams on underneath routes. Los Angeles advanced only as far as the New England 46 yard line, punting on all six drives.That meant Johnny Hekker punted more times than Goff completed passes (five) or the Rams recorded first downs (two).“I think you’re just numb in a way,” Goff said. “We’re trying to process it all, but we know what happened. We got outplayed. We got completely outplayed.”After Los Angeles opened the second half with, yes, two more punts, Goff connected on his two best throws to that point — a 15-yarder to Brandin Cooks and, on third-and-6 from the New England 47, an 18-yard dart over the middle to Robert Woods. Three plays later, Greg Zuerlein drilled a 53-yarder that evened the score at 3-3.The score stayed tied until Michel’s touchdown, and Los Angeles had one last, best opportunity to equalize. On second down from the Patriots’ 27, just after Duron Harmon swooped in to break up a deep pass to Cooks, Goff looked that way again. This time, his pass was underthrown, and Gilmore, draping Cooks, leapt to grab it.“I knew Jared Goff was going to chuck it up,” Gilmore said. “It was probably one of the easiest picks I’ve had all year.”Gostkowski extended the margin of victory with a 41-yarder with 1:12 left, and after Zuerlein missed a 48-yarder, a final act of desperation, the Patriots swarmed the field, the scene familiar and new all at once.They have assembled this unyielding dynasty behind Gronkowski and Edelman, Devin McCourty and Dont’a Hightower, and hundreds of others. But only two men have witnessed it all from the start. Neither Brady nor Belichick has indicated he intends to retire, and why would they? The everlasting champions, for the sixth time in 18 seasons, have a title to defend.An earlier version of a summary that appeared with this article on The Times’s home screen referred incorrectly to a record shared by the New England Patriots and the Pittsburgh Steelers. The teams have each won six Super Bowl titles, not six N.F.L. titles.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byRoundupBy Tariq PanjaA toxic political dispute is threatening to sink the Persian Gulf’s biggest sports television contract, a development that could have repercussions for other broadcast rights agreements worth billions of dollars.The Asian Football Confederation, the governing body for soccer in the region, on Tuesday unilaterally broke its exclusive contract with its Middle Eastern broadcast partner, the Qatar-based beIN Media Group, so that it could broadcast matches in Saudi Arabia, a country where beIN has been banned amid a bitter diplomatic and economic crisis between Gulf neighbors that is now in its second year.The A.F.C’s decision to nullify its contract for the broadcast rights to games in Saudi Arabia comes even after rulers there have allowed a major piracy operation, perhaps the most sophisticated in television history, to steal billions of dollars of sports content owned by beIN since 2017.BeIN’s rights deals with the A.F.C., which run through 2020, are worth $300 million. The broadcaster immediately announced its intention to file a lawsuit to counter the decision to strip it of the rights to games broadcast in Saudi Arabia, which comes weeks before the A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman Bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, stands for re-election. His opposition in that vote consists of a candidate from the United Arab Emirates, a Saudi ally, and another from Qatar.Yousef Al-Obaidly, beIN’s chief executive, said Tuesday’s decision was not a coincidence; he accused the A.F.C. of colluding with Saudi Arabia ahead of April’s election.“It is remarkable to see the governing body of football across Asia — which should, by definition, be apolitical — putting politics ahead of its long-term commercial interests and established legitimate relationships,” Al-Obaidly told The New York Times in an emailed statement. “We will use the full force of international law to claim every dollar of damages we have and will incur as a result of the A.F.C.’s unilateral breach of our agreement.”Previously, the A.F.C. had issued strongly worded condemnations of the theft of beIN’s programming and threats of legal action against the Saudi-based piracy operation, dubbed BeoutQ.The dispute comes at a delicate time, with beIN Media and the A.F.C locked in negotiations over a new regional contract. The A.F.C. had tried to persuade beIN to agree to purchase future rights but without access to Saudi Arabia, the Gulf’s biggest market.News of a separate deal with the A.F.C. for the Saudi rights was first announced by the Saudi soccer federation, well before the A.F.C.’s released its own brief statement on the matter almost 24 hours later.Salman, who is also a FIFA vice president, has made no comment. The A.F.C said its decision to stream games in Saudi Arabia on its own channels was an attempt to tackle piracy. But within hours, its content was available on other platforms across Saudi Arabia, including on the free-to-air channel Saudi 24. A promise to geoblock coverage so it could only be viewed inside the Gulf’s most-populous country also failed, with the A.F.C.’s stream of its Champions League games available outside the kingdom.Rights owners across the spectrum of sports, from FIFA to the governing bodies for tennis and track and field, have lodged complaints over the industrial scale piracy of their broadcast rights by BeoutQ. The latest twist could threaten the billions of dollars in income those organizations are able to extract for their content, according to beIN. The company said broadcasters would be unlikely to pay vast sums for exclusive contracts if those rights could be protected.“There is now no guaranteed protection of intellectual property in the region to due to the A.F.C. in effect endorsing Saudi Arabia’s theft of world sport and wholesale disregard for the international rule of law,” the network said.CHAMPIONS LEAGUE Cristiano Ronaldo scored his first hat trick for Juventus to send the club into the Champions League quarterfinals with a 3-0 win over Atlético Madrid on Tuesday. The Italian side fought back from a two-goal first-leg defeat.Ronaldo scored from open play in each half and then converted a late penalty as Juventus advanced by 3-2 on aggregate, ending Atlético’s hopes of reaching the final, which will be held in its Wanda Metropolitano Stadium.It was Ronaldo’s eighth hat trick in the competition, moving him even with Barcelona’s Lionel Messi and demonstrating why Juventus paid Real Madrid 112 million euros (then $131.5 million) for the Portuguese forward, who has dominated the competition in recent years. Ronaldo is seeking a fourth straight Champions League title; Real Madrid was eliminated without him by Ajax last week.It was the first time Juventus came back from a two-goal defeat in the first leg.“Maybe that’s why Juventus signed me,” Ronaldo said. “To help it do things that it had never done before. This result is a great push for the future. We’re strong and we showed it.”Manchester City also advanced to the quarterfinals, routing Schalke by 7-0 to progress on aggregate, 10-2.Juventus thought it had taken the lead less than three minutes into its game but a video review confirmed that Ronaldo had fouled Atlético goalkeeper Jan Oblak before Giorgio Chiellini fired in the rebound.But a goal eventually came when Italy forward Federico Bernardeschi put in a cross from the left for Ronaldo to head in at the far post in the 27th minute. Ronaldo got his second goal three minutes into the second half, as Joao Cancelo put in a cross from the right. Although Oblak clawed Ronaldo’s header out from under his crossbar, goal-line technology confirmed the ball had crossed the line.Juventus went all out attack and got the decisive third goal four minutes from the final whistle, when Bernardeschi was nudged over in the penalty area. Ronaldo converted the resulting penalty kick.In Manchester, Manchester City tied the record for the biggest win in the Round of 16 of the Champions League by thrashing Schalke.Sergio Agüero scored twice in the first half for City, and Leroy Sané rolled in another goal before halftime before Raheem Sterling, Bernardo Silva, Phil Foden and Gabriel Jesus added second-half goals.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshA newspaper in a small city in Alabama that drew condemnation over an editorial calling for the Ku Klux Klan to “ride again” has a new editor and publisher: a 46-year-old black woman.The new editor, Elecia R. Dexter, is taking over The Democrat-Reporter, a weekly newspaper serving Linden in western Alabama, at a “pivotal time,” the newspaper said in a statement.“You may have full confidence in her ability to handle these challenging times,” it said.The newspaper’s longtime editor, Goodloe Sutton, who is white, stepped down this week amid widespread criticism of an editorial he wrote railing against “Democrats in the Republican Party and Democrats” and calling for the return of the most infamous white supremacist group in the nation’s history. In an interview with The Montgomery Advertiser, he went even further, suggesting that the Klan “go up there and clean out D.C.”The editorial made national news. The University of Southern Mississippi and Auburn University rescinded past honors given to Mr. Sutton, and the Alabama Press Association suspended the membership of The Democrat-Reporter and censured Mr. Sutton.The editorial also stung the community in Linden, a city of roughly 2,000 people — 59 percent white and 41 percent black — about 100 miles west of Montgomery.On Saturday, Ms. Dexter said she had started working at the newspaper only a few weeks ago as a clerk in the front office, after moving to the nearby town of Sweet Water, Ala., where her father was born. She previously lived in Illinois and South Carolina, she said, and has a background in human resources.After the editorial was published, she said, she and Mr. Sutton had a “very open and direct dialogue.” She was debating whether to stay in the job when he offered to turn the newspaper over to her, she said.“People have stopped by or they saw me in the store,” she said. “Now they feel like it’s going to be a true reflection of everyone.”“I do think this helps,” she said of her appointment.The Democrat-Reporter, which has served Linden since 1879, had been in Mr. Sutton’s family for decades. But the newspaper, which has a circulation of a few thousand, had dwindled to what amounted to a one-man show in recent years.The incendiary editorial was seen as further evidence of the fall of Mr. Sutton, 80, a fixture of public life in Linden who inherited the newspaper from his father and was once widely hailed, along with his wife, for exposing corruption in the local sheriff’s department in the 1990s.More recently, Mr. Sutton has published editorials that were racially insensitive and “very hurtful,” said the mayor of Linden, Charles Moore, who is white. “He lost his wife, and all the credibility went with her,” he said. “She was a very good investigative reporter, and also a real sweet person.”An editorial in May 2015 said an unidentified mayor had “displayed her African heritage by not enforcing civilized law” and referred repeatedly to black people as “thugs.”And during the widespread debate over football players kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police brutality, the paper published an editorial titled “Let football boys kneel.” “That’s what black folks were taught to do two hundred years ago, kneel before a white man,” it read. “Is that it? Let them kneel!”Mr. Sutton said on Saturday that he stepped down because of his age, not the controversy. He said he had found in Ms. Dexter a successor “who can get things done” and said he would be involved going forward only in an advisory role.He did not apologize for the editorial about the K.K.K. “That’s what editorials are all about,” he said. “To upset people, make them take action.”He said he had hoped the editorial would draw attention to corruption in Washington and the F.B.I., though the editorial did not mention the agency. He said he wrote it “in irony” to suggest that the “lowlife” K.K.K. investigate the F.B.I., which he said he held in even lower regard.“Right now, I would consider them above the F.B.I. as far as being good guys,” he said, referring to the K.K.K.Ms. Dexter said she had a fine relationship with Mr. Sutton and had learned a lot about the newspaper business from him in only a few weeks.But, she said, she did not agree with him using his platform to write about a group that evokes fear and hurt for many people, “especially people of my color.”“There are other ways you can talk about cleaning Washington without using that group,” she said.Now, she said, she was working with Mr. Sutton in a transition. “He’s supportive of what I’m trying to do and he’s not trying to intervene,” she said. “It’s been a whirlwind.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Robert D. McFaddenFred Thompson, who founded a Brooklyn track club for girls and young women in 1963 and coached national and Olympic medalists as he championed the cause of female track-and-field athletes for a half-century, died on Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 85.Lorna Forde, a former track star for Mr. Thompson, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer’s disease.A lawyer and former New York State assistant attorney general, Mr. Thompson founded the Atoms Track Club of Brooklyn in a Bedford-Stuyvesant community center, mostly out of frustration with New York City public schools that, for budgetary and other reasons, limited the participation of girls, but not necessarily of boys, in physical education and high school sports.Mr. Thompson was also the founding organizer of the annual Colgate Women’s Games, the nation’s largest amateur track series for women. Since 1974, the games, open to girls and women from elementary school through college (and with a competitive division for women over 30), have attracted thousands of participants, mostly from East Coast states, to various venues from Boston to Virginia.A former track star at Boys High School in Brooklyn and the City College of New York, Mr. Thompson inspired remarkable loyalty in his Atoms, which often had 40 to 50 members. Most were runners, some as young as 9, but most were teenagers who regarded him as a counselor, friend and father figure. He paid nearly all the expenses of the club, which was independent of schools or sponsors.Early on, the Atoms practiced in community center hallways or in locked schoolyards (by scaling fences at twilight). But he eventually found a home for the club at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.His coaching combined sophisticated training techniques with one-on-one skull sessions. And beyond coaching, he demanded good grades and personal responsibility from his athletes.“The Atoms doesn’t really stand for track,” he told The New York Times in 1978. “The Atoms stands for excellence in education, trying to better yourself in this society, and one way to do that is to go to college and get that piece of paper.”For many Atoms, the club was a refuge from broken homes and lives of poverty, as well as a path to education and upward mobility. In time, despite financial and logistical obstacles and a lack of the public support that flows readily to football, basketball and baseball, the club became a symbol of inner-city success as its runners won regional, national and finally Olympic recognition.Its stars included Cheryl Toussaint-Eason, a silver medalist at the 1972 Munich Olympics in the 1,600-meter relay and a gold medalist at the Pan American Games; Diane Dixon, who won Olympic gold in Los Angeles in 1984 in the 400-meter relay and was an 11-time national indoor champion; and Grace Jackson-Small, the silver medalist in the 200-meter sprint at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. Mr. Thompson was an assistant coach of the United States track team in Seoul.Many of the Atoms’ victories could not be clocked by stopwatches. In its first 15 years, the club produced 50 college graduates, a remarkable record given the economic status of their families. They became teachers, lawyers, nurses, psychologists, entrepreneurs — and mothers. “One’s a doctor now, and another runs a study program in a state college,” Mr. Thompson told The Times in 1979.“But we’ve lost some, too,” he added. “We had a little girl we called Cricket who still holds the 100-yard dash record for 12- and 13-year-olds. But the streets got her. She stopped coming to practice. Another girl, a shot-putter named Diane, they found her dead from an overdose of drugs. I made all my girls go to her funeral. It wasn’t easy. They were crying. They took it hard. But I thought it was something they should see.”The coach often sounded like a father, although he was a bachelor and had no children. “I’ve always been single,” he told the Times sportswriter Gerald Eskenazi in 1985. “I came close to getting married twice. I miss not having a kid. People say, ‘You have many kids,’ but it’s not the same.”Frederick Delano Thompson was born in Brooklyn on May 21, 1933. When he was 5, his parents, Hector Joseph Thompson and Evelyn Cethas, split up, and Fred and his brother, John, were sent to live with an aunt, Ira Johnson, who had a deep influence on the boys.“Life is two things,” Mr. Thompson recalled her saying. “One, get an education, because once you have a college diploma nobody can take that away from you. And two, get involved with people.”Fred followed both suggestions. He grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant and graduated from Boys High in 1950. At City College, he began as a chemical engineering major but switched to history and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 1955. He then studied law at St. John’s University, earning his degree in 1958.After two years in the Army, he was admitted to the state bar in 1961 and opened a private law practice in Brooklyn. He worked mostly on negligence cases.Aware of the city’s shortage of track facilities for the young, and particularly concerned about limited girls’ participation in intramural and interscholastic sports activities, Mr. Thompson followed his aunt’s advice to become involved. He became a civilian volunteer with the Police Athletic League and then founded the Atoms Track Club. Soon he had dozens of members.“Most of them are not from circumstances and surroundings that you would call ideal,” he told The Times. “They have home problems, social problems, boy problems and many other problems. You can’t just sweep these under the rug if you want to see them develop their talents and succeed in life. So I involve myself.”A decade later, in 1972, the landmark federal legislation known as Title IX, which banned sex discrimination in any educational program receiving federal funds, became law. It was the beginning of a sea change for female athletes. Before the law, about 310,000 girls and women in America were participating in high school and college sports. Today, federal officials say, there are 3.3 million.Mr. Thompson, who handled legal cases for ABC-TV, the Federal Trade Commission and Madison Square Garden and was an assistant state attorney general from 1967 to 1969, gave up law practice in 1974, when he became the full-time paid director of the Colgate Women’s Games. Sponsored by Colgate-Palmolive, the games have been a huge, complex operation, often attracting as many as 20,000 competitors of all ages.He remained the coach of the Atoms until after the turn of the century, when its membership began to dwindle, and directed the Colgate Women’s Games for 40 years until his retirement in 2014.Mr. Thompson, whose brother died some years ago, leaves no immediate survivors. He had Alzheimer’s disease in recent years but remained at his home in Brooklyn, cared for by Ms. Forde, one of his best and most devoted former runners. A sprinter from Barbados, she competed in the 1972 and 1976 Summer Olympics and in the 1975 Pan American Games.“Fred Thompson is one of those special people that a sport such as track and field needs,” the Times columnist Dave Anderson wrote in 1979. “In the big money sports, a coach can always dream of going on to a lucrative career in college or in the pros. In track and field, there is no big money as there is in football or basketball. In track and field, the love of the sport is true; the dream is pure.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyIf the opinion published Friday night in a landmark college sports antitrust case were a novel, then its villain would be the N.C.A.A.In a novella-length 104-page opinion, United States District Court Judge Claudia Wilken criticizes, berates, even mocks the N.C.A.A. for its refusal to allow colleges to compensate players for their valuable labor beyond a scholarship and related costs of attendance, all in the name of something they call amateurism.“Defendants nowhere define the nature of the amateurism they claim consumers insist upon,” said Wilken, referring to the N.C.A.A. and several of its richest, most prominent conferences.Even if they had, Wilken continued, she pointed to numerous exceptions when players could, effectively, be paid. Players are paid, beyond scholarships, all the time: in untold millions of dollars invested in training facilities; in gifts for participating in bowl games; in funds available to purchase loss-of-value insurance.“The rules that permit, limit or forbid student-athlete compensation and benefits do not follow any coherent definition of amateurism,” she said.The decision stems from a long-running case in which a group of college athletes sued the N.C.A.A. and 11 athletic conferences that participate in the top levels of basketball and football. They contended that the ruling bodies of college sports had colluded to enact a system that unfairly limits the compensation they receive when they are attending and competing for their universities. The N.C.A.A. and the conferences argue that those limits are essential for promoting amateurism and enhancing the value of college sports and undergraduate education.In her decision, Wilken seems to say that those rules “did restrain trade,” producing “significant anticompetitive effects.”“The clerk,” Wilken added on the final page, with the majestic understatement of a good literary denouement, “shall enter judgment for the Plaintiff class.”So why doesn’t it feel as if the group of athletes who pursued the litigation to end the N.C.A.A.’s rule won the case? Why did they and their star sports labor lawyer Jeffrey Kessler not get the outcome they most fervently sought?Despite finding that the N.C.A.A. was violating federal law, Wilken turned away the plaintiffs’ main proposed remedy, which was also the logical one: to lift the supposedly lawbreaking cap on compensation. That means the continuation of a status quo where so many players feel they are working basically for free. How’s that?“When you apply a uniquely muddled set of laws to a unique industry, this is the kind of ruling you get,” said Gabe Feldman, who directs Tulane’s sports law program and teaches antitrust law (the unique muddle to which he was referring).The upshot of Friday’s ruling, pending a likely appeal, is that the N.C.A.A. may continue to cap payments to athletes after all — with the limited exception of expenses that are educational in nature. Think computers, or costs related to internships, or postgraduate scholarships.Don’t think: stipends of $1,000, or $10,000, or $100,000, because the player receiving it is good enough that he or she is worth even more than that to the college in increased ticket sales, and media exposure and television rights payments.No wonder several of the defendants responded this weekend with the kind of equanimity one does not expect from parties that technically lost a case.The decision “reaffirms the fundamental principles of the collegiate athletic model and of amateurism,” Pacific-12 Commissioner Larry Scott said in a statement. “Student-athletes are first and foremost students, who attend college to receive an education and to prepare themselves for success in life, while also pursuing athletic excellence.”(Scott’s statement is more aspirational than descriptive: There are basketball players who conclude their college careers before finishing even a year of college.)Similarly, the reaction from players’-rights advocates was more muted than you might expect postvictory.“This is progress, but it’s just one step,” Ramogi Huma, of the College Athletes Players Association, said in a text message. “This ruling still treats athletes as second-class citizens. No other student or citizen is subject to such harmful economic price-fixing, especially one imposed by a repeat antitrust violator that does not have an antitrust exemption.”How can a judge rule that a law is being broken but allow the lawbreaking to continue?According to Feldman, the answer includes a much-disputed antitrust principle known as the rule of reason. In some cases — including this one — the rule calls for anticompetitive activity to be overturned only if there is a different system that could provide the positive benefits of the anticompetitive system without suppressing other competition as much.Wilken determined that amateurism was crucial to college sports’ commercial appeal and allowed it to compete with professional sports, even if doing so required it to apparently violate antitrust law.“The court does credit the importance to consumer demand of maintaining a distinction between college sports and professional sports,” she said.Courts have given sports leagues a wide berth when it comes to antitrust, Feldman said: “The argument is that sports are unique.”After all, sports cannot really exist unless, say, 353 teams are allowed to agree to the same rules in men’s basketball, even though that might technically constitute collusion in any other realm of commerce.Wilken was also following precedent. Most of all, she was following a precedent set by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit — her circuit.In an earlier case, known as O’Bannon, the appellate court agreed with part of a Wilken finding at the district court level that the N.C.A.A. ban on compensating athletes for the commercial use of their names, images and likenesses in things like video games was an antitrust violation. But the appellate judges overturned her proposal that athletes be able to receive up to $5,000 annually in exchange. The Ninth Circuit’s reasoning was that such payments were not “tethered to education.”You can draw a direct line between that phrase, from 2015, and Wilken’s 2019 ruling in this case. That is how she Solomonically decided that the N.C.A.A. may restrict payments as long as they are noneducational.“Future plaintiffs, if they challenge N.C.A.A. rules, will look for a jurisdiction outside of the Ninth Circuit,” Feldman said. The Ninth Circuit, after all, has now made it very clear it will defer to the N.C.A.A.Another venue could rule in a more plaintiff-friendly direction. Kessler, the prominent sports lawyer, may now be able to push forward with a nearly identical case in Federal District Court in New Jersey.Either way, the future of college athletics is now out of the hands of Wilken, who for nearly a decade has loomed over it.Her decision last Friday may be a result of her understanding her power and its limits. Numerous observers expected a more plaintiff-friendly ruling based on the questions she asked during trial.Yet here we are, with little change.“This finding did not surprise me,” said Gerald Gurney, a former head of the reform-minded Drake Group.“Even though she may have wanted to completely agree with Kessler’s arguments,” Gurney added, “she did have some constraints.”OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyA freakish injury to Duke’s Zion Williamson, college basketball’s best and most prominent player, only seconds into a game on Wednesday night has instantaneously renewed a debate about the contradictions of the sport’s economic foundation, shining a harsh new light on the N.C.A.A.’s policy of amateurism and the influence of billion-dollar shoe companies.It also raised an important question: Should Williamson ever suit up for another college game?Fans were asking the question. An N.B.A. player was, too, even before Duke announced that Williamson had sprained his right knee in the fall.“It’s a legitimate question,” said Ramogi Huma, the founder and president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for players’ rights.In the first minute of top-ranked Duke’s game against its archrival, eighth-ranked North Carolina, Williamson, a 6-foot-7, 285-pound forward whose game is a blend of quickness and power, pivoted with the ball near the free-throw line. As he planted a foot to reverse direction, his left sneaker collapsed and tore apart from the sheer torque of the move.Williamson fell backward in a split, grabbing his right knee. He walked off the court, and did not return. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said afterward that Williamson had sustained a knee injury, but that the joint was “stable.”Pending further testing, the general sense is that Williamson — and Duke, and Nike, which made the shoe — had avoided the worst. Williamson, widely considered the nation’s best college player, is expected to be available to Duke in time for its conference tournament or the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins in a month.That is, should Williamson elect to return.Huma cited the example of a top football player who found himself with a more serious injury a few years ago; that player elected to end his college career prematurely, to limit the risk to his professional payday. “To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Huma said.The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple. Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.That is how the college sports economy works, even as Duke; its conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference; television networks; and, of course, Nike, the apparel company that sponsors Duke and made the shoe that so spectacularly ripped apart, reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes like Williamson.As a private university, Duke does not release details of its apparel deals. The university recently extended its current agreement through 2027. North Carolina, 12 miles away, receives about $10 million a year from Nike. Texas, Michigan and Ohio State, which have more prominent football programs than Duke and North Carolina, have Nike deals worth closer to $17 million annually.Tickets to Wednesday night’s game, at Duke, were being offered for more than $2,000 on the secondary market.Williamson, so far, has earned nothing. Partly for this reason, everyone agrees that he is planning to enter this year’s N.B.A. draft, the first for which he is eligible. He is widely expected to be the No. 1 overall pick and receive a starting contract that would net him tens of millions of dollars. Even before that — but only after his college career is over — the telegenic Williamson, known since high school for his thunderous dunks, will be free to sign million-dollar endorsement deals.The only thing that could halt these inevitabilities would be a serious injury that substantially lowered his draft value. While there is insurance for this kind of event, it rarely pays out and most likely could never account for the loss of value of Williamson’s future professional contracts.So the argument goes: Why chance it by returning to Duke at all?Even if Williamson has a simple sprain of his medial collateral ligament — a minor injury that in a perfect world might not sideline him for more than a week or two — the risk of returning to a team that does not pay him is borne solely by Williamson.Donovan Mitchell, who played for two years at Louisville before the Utah Jazz selected him in the 2017 N.B.A. draft, suggested as much in a tweet after Williamson was hurt on Wednesday night, writing, “Again let’s remember all the money that went into this game … and these players get none of it … and now Zion gets hurt … something has to change @NCAA.”There are, however, also reasons for Williamson to return to try to help the Blue Devils win their sixth national championship. He may feel loyalty to his teammates, who include several other freshmen likely bound for the N.B.A. this year, or to his coaches. Many young basketball players grow up watching the N.C.A.A. tournament and dream of playing in it themselves; a star turn in March and April would enhance Williamson’s formidable marketability, even if it could do little to raise his draft stock.Still, even college administrators said he should at least consider skipping it.“Every time there’s something like this, there needs to be continual exploration and dialogue about what, if anything, should be done to make it different,” said Dan Beebe, a consultant and former commissioner of the Big 12 Conference.“Do we provide more resources because of all the money coming in and others who are benefiting from it — including coaches, athletic directors, commissioners?” Beebe added. “But then you get into really complex questions that need to be asked about how far do you go with that?”In football, a more injury-prone sport, there have been recent examples of players skipping season-ending bowl games before they enter the N.F.L. draft. In October, Ohio State defensive lineman Nick Bosa, a junior, had surgery after a core muscle injury. While there was no timetable for his return, he announced then that he would withdraw from college to focus on recovering and training for the draft.The questions surrounding Williamson’s options are related to those that an N.C.A.A. commission addressed last season after federal prosecutors revealed extensive corruption in college basketball recruiting. Some of the remedies the commission proposed could eliminate future situations like Williamson’s. For instance, it lobbied the N.B.A. and its players’ union to eliminate the current rule requiring players to be a year removed from high school before playing in the league. The league already plans to create the opportunity for elite players to earn $125,000 salaries in its developmental league rather than attend college.But the commission did not address what many say is the fundamental issue: the gap between the money that players like Williamson generate for universities, leagues, apparel companies and others, and those players’ inability to be compensated.In that light, what might be most shocking about Williamson’s current situation is that something like it did not happen sooner.On Wednesday, hours before the Duke-North Carolina game, Huma was on the phone with a staff member for a Washington state senator who is sponsoring a bill that would permit athletes to be paid and to retain agents.“I literally gave the example: What if Zion Williamson got hurt?” Huma said.“I guarantee you,” he added, “if Duke were free to offer Zion Williamson money for him to play, they would jump at the chance.”An earlier version of this article misstated the listed height and weight of Zion Williamson. He is 6-foot-7 and 285 pounds, not 6-foot-9 and 280 pounds.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNNatan Last, let’s go to the videotape.By Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUZZLE — Natan Last has a tremendous record for introducing elegant new entries (how had we lived without CAFFEINE FIX?) and a sharp eye for the type of wordplay that sneaks up on you (and, if you’re me, keeps right on going, just overhead). This is one of those puzzles. The solve is greatly enhanced by today’s constructor notes, so glean what details you can from Mr. Last — he mentors, and teaches people how to do this stuff, and has the type of loopy and flexible mind that slots together intricate bits and pieces to form a cohesive whole. It’s quite amazing.We’ve had a run of prominent Sunday themes that underpin an entire big grid. A bright puzzle like this, where one has to tease the tendrils of the theme out during the entire solve, is a lot of fun and a little bit of a palate cleanser.Much inscrutability today in that tendriled theme — if you don’t find what you’re looking for here, move on down a section.7A: A heartbreaking state of affairs, in the days of waning print circulation and instant feedback, is the lonely journalist sitting in the dark with his or her analytics panel open anxiously watching the CLICKS. There’s no market for quality over quantity anymore. (All of you are quality clicks, friends. High-class clicks.)71A: I don’t know if you’ve spent time in Louisiana or otherwise had the opportunity to “fais do-do,” or make a party happen, but if you have, then “makin’ groceries” probably sounded CAJUN to you. 72A: These are both astrological signs and AUTOS. If you happened to wonder if there was ever a “Scorpio” car, there was! It was gorgeous.2D: C.B. radios and their lingo go back about a century, and members of the “10 code,” common or relevant phrases that are coded to the number 10 with another number, were used by the police in the 1930s to make communication easier. It makes sense that TEN ONE would establish, right off the bat, that communication via the radio was staticky, faint or otherwise difficult to understand. Intentionally or not, the crossing here with SHE BEAR was cute because that could be a female cop. If a SHE BEAR in a plain brown wrapper takes your picture and turns on the bubble gum machine, you might be about to get a driving award.6D: The Nylons sang “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” and the Rayons sang “Do You Love Me.” Three makes a (highly synthetic) pattern; I always figured these bands were using the fabric names to be modern and slick, but the ORLONS apparently took their name as a spoof of a popular group at their high school, the Cashmeres. This was not the Cashmeres, by the way, who also had hits in the 60s.41D: Who else had “egg roll” at first? White House propaganda. If you went straight to EGG HUNT, maybe you thought of the Easter beagle.77D: After a 40-plus year absence, this is the second appearance in a few months of GAY PAREE, which looks so odd but was, as spelled, the title of a 1926 Broadway musical revue, and also in a title of a Cole Porter song for the 1953 show “Can-Can.”93D: This might have been the crunchiest “straight” clue today, heralding the 21st-century debut of OTOMI, or Hñäñhü, people of Central Mexico. I had never put a name to these marvelous textiles, but the Otomi are known for beautiful embroidery.There is a fairly well-known sporting event on telly this evening, so your minds may have been tuned to that frequency already, and we have a theme today that revolves around sportsmanship, or rather lack thereof, in four major athletic leagues — M.L.B. baseball, N.F.L. football, FIFA soccer and N.B.A. basketball. We seem to be missing N.H.L. hockey, probably because it’s difficult to play attempted murder for laughs, and that is what it takes to get thrown out of a hockey match (or so I thought — more on that later).There are three layers to each sports “play,” we’ll call them. The first two are codependent so we’ll address them together.First, there are four italicized clues, each linked to another entry — these are at 28A (linking to 102A), 48A (linking to 105A), 64A (linking to 87A) and 86D (linking to 65A). Each of these italicized clues refers to a star from one of the above sports leagues, getting “ejected,” or thrown out, of the entry that’s linked.Second, we have those linked clues, referred to above. Each is straightforward, but too tricky to come up with, at least for me, without a ton of crossing letters filled in. Even then, though, there’s a problem. Let’s look at the first example, 28A, “N.F.L. star ejected from 102-Across,” and 102A, “Entry fee.”I am enough of a nonfan to solve RICE at 28A, purely on the crosses, and have no idea who RICE is. (Not that it matters in this case, just letting you know — I did look all these guys up for the column, but totally drew a blank here to the point that I didn’t instantly connect RICE to a last name and wondered for a while what starchy grains had to do with anything.)At 102A, I had enough down entries pretty confidently inked to get __ __ __ ADMISSION, then __ OF ADMISSION, at which point the first notion of a rebus dawned on me. But I still racked my brain for a bit, getting stuck on “cost” or “rate” before filling in 92D, getting the “p” in ROPED at the beginning of 102A, and everything clicked. We’re looking at the P(RICE) OF ADMISSION. Jerry RICE was a 20-season N.F.L. star who most call the greatest wide receiver of all time. I don’t want to spoil all four, but at the same time they are each pretty tricky, so here are some hints, in gradients:48A, the “N.B.A. star ejected from 105-across,” is a modern-era basketball center who was probably more famous for getting fouled than getting ejected.105A(ONEAL) ARM CHILI64A, the “M.L.B. star ejected from 87-across,” is one of the original superstars of baseball who is famous for cursing an entire city.87ATHE T(RUTH) WILL SET YOU FREE86D, the “FIFA star ejected from 65-across,” is an Argentine soccer (football) forward who plays for Barcelona and has scored more goals than anyone except Ronaldo in their league.65A(MESSI)AH COMPLEXOther than scratching my head a little bit at 87A I thought these theme entries were a total riot.I mentioned a tertiary element, one that was quite edifying to yours truly and anyone else who is unfamiliar with the heartbreak of losing a favorite player to expulsion for some imaginary (or real) affront. Mr. Last has helpfully included, at 21A, 22A, 33A and 58A, actions that will get you ejected while playing each of the sports in question — a BEAN BALL, an ILLEGAL SLIDE TACKLE (sounds stylishly painful, very European), a HELMET HIT and a FLAGRANT FOUL. This last one does remind me of passionately rooting for John Starks back in the early 90s when the Knicks physically manifested most of Greek mythology — Sisyphus, Pandora, Icarus, Narcissus, Frustratus. I also thought of every crossword solver’s favorite hockey player, Bobby Orr, and thought he could figure in a cute “S(orr)y not s(orr)y” entry or some such pun. But this grid was plenty stuffed with theme, and very satisfying.This puzzle is a nice example of the benefits of having thoughtful soundboards for theme ideas — my original concept focused on only soccer, and I toyed with two extra thematic layers: a RED card rebus replacing the square where the player was “ejected,” as in HO[RED]SS ROMANTICS (with PELE getting the red card), and “sidelining” the ejected players, their entries appearing only along the puzzle’s rim.The current iteration is both more varied (lots of different sports and players, rather than one; including the reasons for ejection as a bonus) and compressed (trimming my kooky bells and whistles so the ejection gimmick stands out). It’s the product of lots of back and forth with Joel, and crossword greats like Brendan Emmett Quigley, Andy Kravis and more. All of which is to say that having people like that in my life makes the puzzles I construct better — and is a helpful reminder to make myself available for that kind of theme soundboarding, and more. Please check out the Crossword Collaboration group — its focus on getting more underrepresented groups published is written up here — and feel free to reach out!I also thought the edits on this puzzle were helpful from Will + team, pithier but keeping the (to me interesting or underreferenced) information in my clues for EMILE, MALCOLM X, MALI, COGNATE, CAJUN and (I can’t believe this stayed!) MARIE. Hope y’all enjoy the puzzle!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Landler and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — It has become a favorite parlor trick of President Trump’s, and on Wednesday, he was at it again, brandishing his latest letter from the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-un.“Those few people that I’ve shown this letter to,” Mr. Trump told reporters during a cabinet meeting, his voice trailing off as he waved three typewritten sheets in front of the cameras. “They’ve never written letters like that. This is a great letter. We’ve made a lot of progress with North Korea and Kim Jong-un.”If history is any guide, he will end up showing Mr. Kim’s letter to more than a few people. Mr. Trump delights in sharing with visitors the correspondence he has received from North Korea’s leader since they began writing to each other last year.Typically, according to people who have witnessed such displays, Mr. Trump calls to an assistant sitting just outside the Oval Office to bring him “the letters,” which he then fans out across the Resolute Desk so the people facing him can get a glimpse. They are translated into English and filled with flowery references to Mr. Trump as “Your Excellency.”Theirs is not the first improbable pen-pal relationship — Catherine the Great famously corresponded with Voltaire. Nor is it the most passionate — the writers Henry Miller and Anais Nin come to mind. But few pen-pal relationships have ever been so proudly celebrated, at least by one of the pals.“He wrote me beautiful letters,” Mr. Trump said at a rally in September. “And they’re great letters. We fell in love.”The White House has yet to release any of Mr. Kim’s missives to Mr. Trump, though the president did post on Twitter a brief letter he received from Mr. Kim in July. Mr. Trump has said he would like to make more of Mr. Kim’s letters public but that the North Korean leader asked him to keep them private. In the meantime, the president plays peekaboo with inquiring reporters.“Oh, would you like to see what was in that letter. Wouldn’t you like it?” Mr. Trump joked last June when they pleaded for details of one letter. “How much? How much?”“It was a very interesting letter,” he continued, “and at some point, it may be appropriate — I may be able to give it you.”Mr. Trump has a long history of showing off to visitors. His 26th-floor office at Trump Tower has a windowsill crammed with mementos, including a championship belt sent to him by the boxer Mike Tyson; a football helmet from Tom Brady, the New England Patriots quarterback whom the president once said he hoped would be his son-in-law; and a basketball shoe signed by Shaquille O’Neal, the N.B.A. star.“This is some serious foot,” he told a Wall Street Journal reporter, gesturing at the shoe, during the 2016 presidential campaign.What makes Mr. Kim’s letters different, analysts said, is that they are key to a highly sensitive diplomatic negotiation over North Korea’s nuclear arsenal. The North Korean leader, they said, has set out methodically to cultivate Mr. Trump — building a rapport with him, even to the exclusion of other senior American officials, like Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is overseeing the negotiations.Some analysts said they believed that South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, had counseled Mr. Kim on the wording in the letters, calculating that the president would respond to flattery and a solicitous tone.If so, it has worked: Mr. Trump has been unstinting in his praise of Mr. Kim, even as the nuclear negotiations have bogged down, sometimes rancorously. In one letter, said a person who saw it, Mr. Kim complained that he did not want to deal with Mr. Pompeo — only with Mr. Trump.“We really have established a very good relationship,” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday, noting that he and Mr. Kim would meet for a second time. If he had not been elected, Mr. Trump added, the United States and North Korea would be involved in a “nice, big, fat war.”“From a negotiation standpoint, what Trump thinks is happening is that he has the trust of Kim Jong-un,” said Joseph Y. Yun, a former State Department official who has negotiated with North Korea.“They’ve bonded, and what that means is that there’s not going to be any hostility between them,” Mr. Yun said. “Whether Pompeo makes progress or not doesn’t really matter because everyone has pulled back from the brink. There is no degree of urgency on the part of Trump.”Mr. Trump is not the first president to try to turn a hardened foe into a pen pal. His predecessor, Barack Obama, sent two letters to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in 2009 to try to restart negotiations over its nuclear program. The ayatollah sent a multipage response to Mr. Obama’s first letter and never replied to the second.Those letters, however, have never been released; the White House refused even to confirm their existence.Mr. Trump has been considerably less discreet. In June, he posed, smiling, with Kim Yong-chol, an emissary from the North Korean leader, who had hand-delivered a letter from Mr. Kim in a curiously oversize envelope. After teasing reporters about its “interesting” contents, he abruptly reversed course, when asked whether he had replied.“No, I didn’t. I haven’t seen the letter yet,” Mr. Trump said. “I purposely didn’t open the letter. I haven’t opened it.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat you GetAn 1885 estate in Montclair, a 1925 Mediterranean-style house in Tampa and a custom-built Craftsman in Spokane.By Julie Lasky24 PhotosView Slide Show ›Believed to have been based on a McKim, Mead and White design, this house was built as a summer estate that included much of the surrounding land. Today it sits on 0.6 acres in the Upper Montclair neighborhood, an easy walk to both Brookdale Park to the east and the train station (with direct service to Manhattan) and commercial district (with cafes and shopping) to the west.Size: 6,225 square feetPrice per square foot: $241Indoors: The house has a wide front porch whose roof is supported by columns probably milled from trees cleared from the property at the time it was built. In the foyer, with its coffered ceiling, are floors and moldings of tiger oak, a wood found throughout the first two levels of the house. To the left of the foyer is a parlor with a bay window. A pair of wooden Doric columns marks the entrance to the wide living room, which has a corner fireplace. From there, you enter a family room with decorative wood molding, a marble fireplace and a media center; this room overlooks a sunken, three-season solarium at the back of the home, originally built as a greenhouse.Straight ahead from the foyer is a dining room with a beamed ceiling. Following a short hallway past a powder room, you reach a kitchen with a granite-topped central island and a breakfast niche with three walls of windows. A butler’s pantry lined in cabinets connects the kitchen to the living room. A door within the pantry leads to a laundry room.Two staircases, front and back, ascend to the second floor, where there are four bedrooms and three bathrooms. The master suite has its own sitting room and fireplace, as well as three closets (one walk-in) and two bathrooms.On the third floor are three more bedrooms, two bathrooms and a cupola playroom. The basement has a rec room and a wine cellar that was originally the coal bin.Outdoor space: The front porch is flanked by gazebo-like seating areas, and in back of the house are an in-ground swimming pool and patio area. A porte-cochere with an elevated first step matched to the height of a carriage remains from the days of horses and buggies.Taxes: $42,687 (2018)Contact: Richard G. Stanton, Stanton Company, 917-536-8257; stantonrealtors.idxbroker.comKnown as the Herbert Draper house, after its first owner, a real estate developer, this property was one of the first large homes built on the elite Davis Islands in Hillsborough Bay. Situated on a 0.15-acre corner lot near the northern tip, it is convenient to Marjorie Park Yacht Basin and Tampa General Hospital. The Raymond James stadium, where the Tampa Bay Buccaneers play football, is across a channel on the mainland, 10 minutes away. The home is being sold with most of its furnishings.Size: 3,392 square feetPrice per square foot: $441Indoors: A nationally registered historic property, the house was thoroughly renovated and all of its systems upgraded in 2015; only the windows need to be improved. Features include a living room with hand-painted beams and a solid wood fireplace surround carved with swags and medallions; a library with two walls of Gothic arched windows and floor-to-ceiling bookcases with a rolling ladder; a formal dining room with a second monumental wood-burning fireplace; and a chef’s kitchen with Carrara marble countertops, multiple dishwashers and a tin ceiling.Upstairs are two master suites — one with an onyx-surfaced bathroom with a steam shower and bidet — and two guest rooms. Over the garage is a mother-in-law suite accessible from the main house’s second floor; it has a kitchenette and a bathroom with a walk-in shower with multiple shower heads.The house is equipped with a Sonos sound system and a full generator, and has a 600-bottle wine room. The two-car garage is air-conditioned and has a laundry room and a half bathroom that is convenient to the pool area.Outdoor space: A landscaped patio contains a pool and spa. The walkway that connects the main house to the garage and guest quarters creates a shaded porch area below and a pleasant seating area above. There are partial water views from the open space at the top of the bell tower.Taxes: $20,307 (2017)Contact: Michael Mundy, Eskimo Cat Real Estate, 813-679-2754; state27homes.comAfter buying the property, where a 1914 house in need of repair stood, and investigating the possibility of restoring it, the owners decided to raze it and start fresh. The new house, designed by Gerry Copeland, a Washington architect, retained the earlier home’s Craftsman style and incorporated some of its materials. The property is on the Spokane River, less than two miles west of the central business district of Spokane and about five minutes by car from Kendall Yards, a popular mixed-use development with artisanal shops and restaurants and a supermarket.Size: 5,740 square feetPrice per square foot: $253Indoors: The entrance foyer has rectangular wood ceiling beams, door moldings and stair spindles copied from the previous house. To the left is a study with built-in desks on two walls; to the right, a formal dining room. The entry leads past a staircase to a great room with a gas fireplace built from the original home’s stone. This room has an open kitchen with stainless-steel appliances, square wood cabinets topped with granite and two informal eating areas. The kitchen can also be reached from the attached garage, by way of a mudroom and laundry room.The main-level master bedroom has a gas fireplace, a walk-in closet and a bathroom with double sinks and a ceramic-tile stand-alone tub and shower. Two additional bedrooms and a bathroom are upstairs.A lower level contains two bedrooms, one bathroom and a family room with a wood stove.Outdoor space: The great room and master suite open to a wraparound balcony with river views, and the lower level walks out below it. The four-car garage is accessible from the front and back, and has extensive storage space. The 0.9-acre property includes garden beds, evergreens, flowering shrubs and 136 feet of river frontage.Taxes: $8,636Contact: Kathy Bixler, Coldwell Banker Tomlinson South, 509-879-4493; coldwellbanker.comFor weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.An earlier version of this story misstated the number of bedrooms on the third floor of the home in Montclair, N.J. There are three, not four.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tyler Kepner and James WagnerA lot has changed for Christian Yelich in a year, especially since Nov. 15, when he was named the National League most valuable player. He has been on the road for nearly two weeks this winter, an off-season circuit of photo shoots, awards shows and interviews. On Saturday, he was in Manhattan to formally accept the M.V.P. plaque at the annual New York baseball writers’ dinner.Around this time last year, Yelich was a young and talented but not-so-well-known outfielder for the dysfunctional and eternally changing Miami Marlins. As part of a team fire sale, he was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers on Jan. 25, 2018. He produced a dazzling season, particularly in the second half when he hit as if he had unlocked the cheat codes to a video game. He finished with a N.L. best .326 average and 1.000 on-base-plus-slugging percentage, plus a career high 36 home runs and 110 runs batted in.He led the surprising Brewers, the team in the smallest market in the country, to the N.L. Central title. They came to within one game of the World Series, falling to the big-spending Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 7 of the N.L. Championship Series. Yelich, a native of the Los Angeles area, received 29 of 30 first-place votes for the M.V.P. Award.Yelich, 27, stopped by The New York Times on Friday to answer some questions about his big year, the business of baseball and the wildfire-relief charity, California Strong, that he helped create with several other major leaguers. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.Baseball players generally don’t have renown of football or basketball players. Why are you doing this post-M.V.P. media tour?It’s important, not only for yourself, but for the game. If you’ve been blessed to be in a position and put on the field to speak out on these topics, as far as California Strong or the direction the game is headed. Obviously you want to bring as much attention to the game as possible and grow baseball as much as you can. It’s important. It comes with the responsibility that being a league M.V.P. comes with. I’m just learning on the fly, trying to the best I can.Is there something culturally different about baseball that discourages players speaking out like they do in the N.F.L. or N.B.A.? Why don’t you see that much activism, or players inserting themselves into the political or culture conversation?I don’t think it’s a conscious effort not to be engaged in that stuff. You still see a lot of baseball players doing good. At the end of the day, when you’re trying to do good, that’s all that matters. Whether it’s in a different aspect than in the N.B.A. or N.F.L., you should use your platform for good.How is the California Strong campaign going? You said you’ve raised $1.5 million.It all started was basically a group text with Ryan Braun, Mike Moustakas and [the son of the Brewers’ owner] Mike Attanasio, just basically trying to find information on if everybody’s houses were O.K. Since everyone had to be evacuated, information was kind of minimal. Once we found out that everyone was O.K., it kind of turned into: how can we help? We thought we needed to give back, because the Borderline shooting happened basically a few hours before that night when all the fires started. So we thought about doing something to give back to the hometown and help get people back on their feet.The N.L.C.S. was mostly on a cable network, Fox Sports 1, while the A.F.C. and N.F.C. title games in the N.F.L. were more widely watched on Fox and CBS. Do you think baseball needs more of a national audience?I don’t think baseball is ever going to be the fast-paced game that football or basketball is. It’s never going to be constant action. That’s never how the game is played. With players being allowed to express themselves a little bit more freely on the field, there’s also been a bigger push for them to be on social media to sharing their lives and personalities. It’s going to attract the younger fan because they’re going to feel like they’re engaged and maybe a little bit more invested in these players because they know them a little better. And when there’s a game like that, they tune in and see how their favorite player or team does.What’s life like after winning an M.V.P.? It is different and everything changed one afternoon, basically. There is the show and the announcement and then everything is completely different the next day. You just take it in stride and it’s not anything that’s been overwhelming or I can’t handle this. It’s not like that by any means, but it’s definitely been a lot of fun.Has there been much chatter between you, your teammates or other players about the slow free-agent market or how two superstars, Bryce Harper and Manny Machado, remain unsigned?We talk about it. I don’t want to share exactly what those conversations are. They’re two of the best players that we have in the game right now. The process hasn’t played out. Players talk. I’d like to leave it at that.This past season was the first in which there were more strikeouts than hits. It’s an issue with the commissioner’s office; they’d like to see more hits and more action. Do you see it as a problem?I don’t know how you solve it, but you’ve definitely seen an increase in velocity year by year. There’s been an emphasis on the whole launch angle thing and pitchers combating that with throwing fastballs up in the zone. There’s been a greater push on analytics and teams to look into it and how to get guys out. Hitters have that as well, but hitting has always been hard. Hitting a baseball is still incredibly hard. It’s just one of those things where hitters have to make an adjustment and we have to find a way. Since I’ve been in the league for parts of six years, you can tell already the difference as far as just the amount of power arms you face on a nightly and daily basis.Given the oversaturation of statistics and measurements in baseball, what do you look at to evaluate your own performance?I feel like probably the biggest one is O.P.S. It’s the biggest stat that people take value from in the game, from the people who evaluate it and the people who play it. Just because it’s slugging and on base — two of the things that make up a productive baseball player. We’ve gotten away from batting average a little bit. I still think batting average is important; other people will tell you it’s not anymore in the game, but you don’t want to make outs, basically. You still have to get on base and be productive. Somehow getting on base and getting a hit are really not that big of a deal. It’s still really hard to get a hit in the big leagues, whether it’s a single or homer. There’s still something that can be said for that. You’ve seen that, where the game has gotten away from it, where it’s become acceptable to hit .220 or .230 and hit 30 homers.Every hit almost feels like a miracle because pitchers are throwing so hard. Do you ever sit back and think, This is a really freakish skill I have?Sometimes it feels a lot harder than other times. There’s times when you’re in the on-deck circle or on the bench and you’re like: ‘I have no shot. I don’t know how I’m going to do this but I’ve got to figure it out.’ And other times you’re more locked in and it doesn’t feel as hard. It’s the same feeling every spring training when the pitchers are throwing their bullpen or live batting practices and you’re like” ‘Oh man, this might be the year I go 0 for 500. I don’t know how I’m going to do this.’ And then you get back to the process. I feel like, from the side or in the dugout, this guy is throwing is so hard. And then when you get in there, it’s not really what you think it is because you’re so used to it. It just slows down every day when you’re in there.In the second half last year, did the ball look like a beach ball to you?There are times even during that second half where there were week stretches where it kind of leaves you and doesn’t feel right. But it comes back quicker. When you go on stretches like that, there’s still times where it doesn’t feel great but it still comes back to you quicker. Some years, you’re constantly searching for “it” — and “it” is different for everybody.Can you purposefully foul off a pitch?I can’t. I feel like the only guy that probably could purposefully foul off a ball is ... Who do you think?Ichiro?No. But he might be one of the guys. But I was going to say Joey Votto. I haven’t talked to Joey about this, but I feel like sometimes Joey is up there just trying to walk and he’s just trying to foul the ball off until he walks.Do you guess at the plate?I don’t like to guess. Just react. Some guys are guess hitters. I just could never do it. If you guess and guess wrong, you have no shot of hitting anything else.When you look back on your childhood, what do you think was a difference maker in terms of allowing you to become an elite athlete in terms of your development? The most important thing for kids would basically be have fun and enjoy it. Travel ball has become a business and not as much fun for kids these days. They think their kids are getting scouted when they’re 8, 9 or 10 years old. You should just enjoy the game at this point in your life. Why is there any pressure to play well when you’re 8, 9 or 10? It doesn’t matter if you hit five homers or strike out five times in a game. The Milwaukee Brewers are not watching your travel ball game right now and saying, ‘Johnny is a first-round pick and we’re taking him this year.’AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Lisa Kerney once earned her living hosting “SportsCenter” on ESPN, making her a nightly fixture in the vast American conversation between sports fans and their favorite athletes, teams and leagues. Her latest endeavor, she believes, is just as all-American.Every Saturday, Kerney slips into the anchor’s chair of a very different kind of television program: a sports betting show from a makeshift studio at the Meadowlands Racetrack. Instead of reporting just scores and news, Kerney now also rattles off N.F.L. point spreads and money-line odds as easily as a CNBC host talks stock prices and P/E ratios.She will be on the air again this Sunday, serving up information on the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams in the hours before Super Bowl LIII. The game will take its place in American gambling history because, for the first time, bettors will be allowed to wager on the N.F.L.’s championship game legally, not only in Nevada but also in seven other states.By next year, gambling may be legal in more than a dozen more states, a shift that is already moving betting on games into the mainstream of American culture and teaching fans to look at the sports contests they love as investment opportunities as well as entertainment.“Now fans are able to play the game within the game,” Kerney said. “It goes beyond the nuts and bolts of who’s going to win. It is a whole new way of experiencing sports.”Last May, when the Supreme Court struck down a federal law that prohibited expanded sports gambling, it created — almost overnight — a billion-dollar market that bookmakers, media companies, tech entrepreneurs, touts and quants have rushed in to dominate.On the high end, that has meant sports shows that incorporate into their coverage market-moving information like injury reports and their effect on bettors. But it also means digital subscription services that make a tsunami of sports data available, and app makers eager to help bettors slice it.On the retail front, the innovations have been more basic: how-to-bet sports camps, cable shows that explain the difference between a proposition and parlay bets, and Nevada-based tout services — which for decades have picked winners for a price — that have suddenly refashioned themselves into media companies.“If you have a way to make betting more fun, or to otherwise increase consumer investment in betting, the market needs you,” said Chris Grove, a managing director at Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, an independent research firm. “If you have a way to salve any of the pain points for consumers in the regulated sports betting — the learning curve, hassles with payments, ensuring that you’re getting the price — then the market absolutely needs you.”As sports betting and bills are being shepherded through legislatures in at least 15 other states, the early returns show there is plenty of opportunity in what is a familiar but nascent industry. In New Jersey, for example, sportsbooks at Meadowlands Racetrack and their online counterparts have handled more than $1.2 billion in wagers since the market was born in mid-June, despite having only three brick-and-mortar outlets in the early going and no availability for online wagering until August. If retail and online wagering were to become accessible in all 50 states, Eilers & Krejcik predicted, sports betting in America could become a $16 billion industry.Figures from regulators in Mississippi and Rhode Island also show an upward trend. New Jersey is on pace to surpass Nevada in sports wagering. And though market oversaturation could eventually slow or halt the industry’s rapid growth, that is not a pressing concern.Legalized sports betting has already changed the way some fans consume sports. This month, NBC Sports Washington Plus, a regional sports network, offered an alternate telecast of several Washington Wizards games, starting with one against the Milwaukee Bucks, that looked like a cross between CNBC and ESPNews. Unlike most N.B.A. telecasts, the productions included statistics, odds and point spreads alongside the live action. It was a preview of what game telecasts may look like in a mature sports betting landscape.In two years, the Las Vegas-based Vegas Stats & Information Network (VSiN) has grown from a start-up streaming service with 1.4 million visitors to 12.6 million visitors a month — across video and audio streams like Sirius XM and fuboTV — seeking “actionable information” delivered by a roster of Las Vegas bookmakers and professional gamblers, including the longtime CBS broadcaster Brent Musburger.The Super Bowl, though, has been an integral part of America’s sporting fabric and a highlight of the betting year since long before the Supreme Court’s ruling last year made it legal in more jurisdictions.Last year, for example, $159 million was bet on the Super Bowl legally in Nevada, a respectable take for any business but one that paled in comparison to the estimates of the amount — as high as $4.6 billion — wagered on the game illegally. This year, with eight states now offering legal sports betting, projections for wagering on Sunday’s Super Bowl LIII have risen to more than $325 million, according to PlayUSA, which monitors the legal sports market. That haul is expected to soar as more states bring betting on games out of the realm of corner-bar bookies and offshore operators and onto their tax rolls.At the same time, the popularity of fantasy sports and the growing amounts of easily accessible data and analytics have not merely hastened the acceptance of sports betting: They have transformed the nature of fandom.“This is a generational thing, and what we’ve seen is a perfect storm develop over the last 20 years, with a boom in fantasy sports, the interest in ‘moneyball’ and the democracy of information through technology,” said Chad Millman, the chief content officer at The Action Network, a subscriber-based media company. “It’s meant that fans have become more opportunistic about their fandom. They think about winning individually, not about rooting for a team.”The Action Network runs a website and an app offering data, research and betting tools, as well as general coverage of sports and the nuances of cashing in on them. It also produces a betting show — called “I’ll Take That Bet” — for ESPN+, the sports broadcaster’s new streaming platform.Millman would not say how many subscribers the Action Network has in its first year, but since April, he said, users of the company’s app have logged 13 million bets, and the circulation of the Action Network’s email newsletter has grown nearly tenfold, to 240,000.“In general, sports fans want to be smarter than their friends,” Millman said. “As sports betting becomes more and more part of the conversation, people are trying to figure out what the language of it is.”For now at least, there is a difference between a general sports audience and sports betting audience, a gap Kerney, the former “SportsCenter” anchor, is trying to navigate on her show, created by the bookmaker FanDuel, from the Meadowlands.“Most sports bettors will notice every second on or off the clock, every yard, every pitch, every shot, because any of these can ultimately affect their bets,” said Kevin Grigsby, the show’s executive producer. “So your story, programming, messaging needs narrative that caters to both cohorts.”Kerney and Grigsby’s bosses at FanDuel are making a big bet that they can close that gap quickly. FanDuel is owned by the European bookmakers Paddy Power, as is TVG, the cable network that is home to Kerney’s show. TVG reaches 40 million homes and gives horseplayers wall-to-wall coverage of races that they can bet on through a proprietary website or app. As sports betting expands, TVG is poised to also expand programming like Kerney’s show. FanDuel already takes bets on all sports.With a more than half-century head start on legalized betting, European bookmakers handled more than $13 billion in wagers in 2018, according to Eilers & Krejcik. That is a number Paddy Power and other bookmakers expect the United States market to surpass in as few as five to seven years.“The biggest advantage we have right now is that the leagues, the networks, or me and you don’t have to pretend anymore that there are not hundreds of millions of dollars bet every day on the games we follow,” Kerney said. “We are here to educate and inform but also to become an authority in this space. If we do our jobs, we believe people who follow us will make money.”You can follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrapeAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and David Scull(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The Senate voted to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the border with Mexico, setting up the first veto of his presidency.Twelve Republicans joined all 47 Democratic senators, after the House passed a similar resolution last month. The declaration would have redirected $3.6 billion from military construction projects toward building the border wall, even after Congress rejected a funding request.The bipartisan rebuke was the first time Congress has blocked a presidential emergency declaration. “It’s pure and simple: It’s a vote for border security, it’s a vote for no crime,” Mr. Trump, above, told reporters ahead of the vote.Earlier in the day, the House voted overwhelmingly to demand the public release of the special counsel’s report on the Russia investigation._____2. The captain of the doomed Ethiopian Airlines jetliner seemed calm at first. Then he sounded panicked.Minutes after takeoff from Addis Ababa on Sunday, his Boeing 737 Max 8 had accelerated to abnormally high speeds. “Break break, request back to home,” he urgently radioed controllers, who had seen that the jet was oscillating vertically by hundreds of feet.These details, provided to our reporter by a person who reviewed the air traffic communications, shed chilling new detail about the final minutes of the jet, which crashed, killing all 157 people aboard.Many pilots are abuzz about the strange acceleration. And some are worried their hands-on flying skills are lacking amid increased automation, in the wake of recent crashes of 737 Max 8s, above, in Indonesia and Ethiopia._____3. In other international news:Lawmakers in Britain voted to delay the country’s departure from the European Union beyond the original March 29 deadline after two years of negotiations. In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament, above, also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit.Separately, two rockets were fired at Tel Aviv from the Gaza Strip, the Israeli military reported. One landed in an open area, and the other was intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system. Initial Israeli news media reports said there was no damage or casualties._____4. The relatives of victims of the Sandy Hook massacre won a major court battle over gunmakers’ liability in mass shootings.The ruling, which allows a lawsuit brought by relatives to go to trial, could force gun companies to turn over internal communications they have fought to keep private. It also validates the new strategy lawyers used to find a route around federal protections for gunmakers. Above, Bill Sherlach, whose wife was killed in the shooting, responding to the ruling.“I am thrilled and tremendously grateful,” said Nicole Hockley, whose 6-year-old son, Dylan, was killed in his first-grade classroom in the 2012 shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn. “No one has blanket immunity.”_____5. There were pole-vaulters who didn’t pole-vault. A tennis player who didn’t play a single tennis match. A long snapper who weighed 145 pounds and had stopped playing football.The largest college admissions scandal in recent history has shed new light on the role of college sports in gaining entry to the nation’s top schools.As the scandal broke, students at a school in Kansas City, Mo., who had been working for months to gain entrance into some of the same universities named in court documents called it a harsh lesson in the limits of meritocracy.We also went to the University of Southern California, one of the schools most entangled in the scandal, where four athletics officials are charged with taking bribes, more than the number named at any other school._____6. In 2020 news, Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, is running for president.Mr. O’Rourke, above in Iowa, a Democrat whose near-miss Senate run against Ted Cruz propelled him to stardom last year, announced his intention in a video on his Twitter profile. He has been criticized for not taking a strong enough stance on key Democratic issues — he has declined to call himself a progressive — and for his lack of a campaign infrastructure.We also took a look at how Texas is nearing battleground status._____7. The reputed Gambino mob boss Frank Cali was murdered outside his home on Staten Island.Until Wednesday, it had been decades since an organized crime leader had been killed in New York City. The Gambino family was once the nation’s largest and most influential Mafia group, but several of its leaders were convicted in the 1990s of crimes like murder and racketeering. Above, the scene outside Mr. Cali’s home.Mr. Cali, 53, rose to power by avoiding detection, nothing like John Gotti, the “Dapper Don” who ruled the same operation when Mr. Cali was a little boy. Here are five other high-profile mob hits in New York City from over the years._____8. Japan’s ice monsters are disappearing.Tourists from around the world travel to see the juhyo — huge, Godzilla-like creatures, naturally formed by snow and ice, encasing conifer trees spread across a mountainous landscape. Researchers have tracked a steady deterioration of the ice monsters because of warming temperatures.“I am very worried about greenhouse effects,” said a professor. “By the end of the century, the juhyo will disappear from Earth.” Above, a student collecting snow to sample for airborne contaminants.In other climate news, students in more than 100 countries are planning to skip class on Friday to demand action on climate change._____9. Hudson Yards is Manhattan’s biggest, newest, slickest gated community, according to our architecture critic, who calls it “a relic of dated 2000s thinking.”At $25 billion, the Far West Side development, above, is the largest mixed-use private real estate venture in American history. Many of its tenants were lured by lucrative tax breaks provided by New York politicians to the developers.“It is, at heart, a supersized suburban-style office park, with a shopping mall and a quasi-gated condo community targeted at the 0.1 percent,” Michael Kimmelman, our critic, writes._____10. Finally, happy Pi Day!Pi is defined as the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter, something the internet reminds us of every March 14 (or 3.14). But the famous mathematical ratio, estimated to more than 22 trillion digits (and counting), is the perfect symbol for our species’ long effort to tame infinity, one mathematician, Steven Strogatz, writes.“For some people, Pi Day is an occasion to marvel at circles, long revered as symbols of perfection, reincarnation and the cycles of nature,” writes Mr. Strogatz. “But it is the domestication of infinity that we really should be celebrating.” Above, the Children’s Museum of Houston’s celebration for Pi Day in 2011.Or if you’d rather use the unofficial holiday as an excuse to have a slice of pie, that’s O.K., too.Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact CheckPresident Trump addressed the annual gathering of conservatives for over two hours on Saturday. Here’s a fact-check. By Linda QiuWhat Was Said“When they charge 40 percent tariffs on our cars going into China, and we charge them nothing coming to our country. When they raise their tariff from 10 percent to 25 percent then 40 percent, and they said to me, ‘We expected somebody would call and say, you can’t nobody called so we just left it.’”President Trump’s account of China’s tariff rates and his role in relation to them is distorted.The United States charges a tariff of 2.5 percent — not “nothing” — on foreign car imports and raised the rate on Chinese vehicles to 27.5 percent over the summer.China previously imposed a 25 percent tariff on foreign car imports but lowered that rate to 15 percent in July. As trade tensions between Beijing and Washington escalated, China then increased the tariffs on American cars to 40 percent to retaliate against Mr. Trump’s new tariffs before agreeing in December to temporarily suspend them.What Was Said “The Green New Deal, I encourage it, I think it is really something that they should promote. They should work hard on, it is something the country needs desperately. They have to go out and get it, but I will take the other side of that argument, only because I am mandated to. But they should stay with that. Never change. No planes. No energy. When the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric.”Mr. Trump has escalated a previously exaggerated claim to a false one. The Green New Deal is a proposal by liberal Democrats to combat climate change. It was introduced by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts.The legislation does not call for eliminating airplanes, though a draft summary of the plan on Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s website did refer to getting rid of “emissions from cows or air travel.” Her staff has since retracted the post and said that it was incomplete and published by accident.It is wrong to claim that enforcement of the Green New Deal would lead to “no energy” or no electricity. The legislation calls for the expansion of renewable energy sources, which accounted for about 17.1 percent of electricity generated in the United States in 2018.What Was Said“Then in 1913, they ended tariffs.”The Revenue Act of 1913, or the Underwood Tariff Act, reduced tariff rates to 25 percent from roughly 40 percent but did not eliminate them completely. Tariffs still accounted for nearly one-third of federal revenue in 1915. Rates were then raised in 1922 and 1930, before liberalization became a consistent trend in American trade policy. Tariffs have generated less than 2 percent of annual federal revenue for the past 70 years.What Was Said“So we fired Comey. Schumer who called for his resignation many times. Podesta, I believe that day ... called for his resignation.”Many Democratic lawmakers had criticized James B. Comey, the former director of the F.B.I., for his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email server before he was fired by Mr. Trump. But the two men the president singled out had not called for Mr. Comey to step down.Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, said that he had lost confidence in Mr. Comey, but he did not say that Mr. Comey should be ousted. John D. Podesta, the former Clinton campaign manager, called Mr. Comey’s handling of the investigation a “mistake” that broke with precedent but specifically declined to press for his resignation.What Was Said“We never have empty seats.”While Mr. Trump does draw large, passionate crowds at events and often fills overflow rooms, seats have been empty on occasion. For example, at a May 2017 rally in Harrisburg, Pa., Mr. Trump drew a crowd of roughly 9,500 people in an arena that could hold 11,431, according to The Philadelphia Inquirer. The New York Times reported that Mr. Trump had privately expressed disappointment with empty chairs at an August 2018 rally in West Virginia.What Was Said“I flew to Iraq — first time I left the White House because I stayed in the White House for months and months because I wanted the Democrats to get back from their vacations from Hawaii and these other places.”Mr. Trump visited troops in Iraq on Dec. 26, but that was far from his first outing in months. He traveled to the National Cathedral in Washington on Christmas Eve and went to Arlington National Cemetery on Dec. 15. Other trips took him to the Army-Navy football game in Philadelphia on Dec. 8, a law enforcement event in Missouri on Dec. 7, the Group of 20 meeting in Argentina from Nov. 29 to Dec. 1, and campaign rallies in Mississippi on Nov. 26. He also celebrated Thanksgiving at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida.Other claimsMr. Trump also made at least 9 other inaccurate claims that The Times has previously fact-checked:He understated the number of Electoral College votes Mrs. Clinton won as 223. (It was 232.)He exaggerated the United States’ annual trade deficit with China as $500 billion. (It was $336 billion in 2017.)He exaggerated the United States’ annual trade deficit with the rest of the world as $800 billion. (It was $553 billion in 2017.)He misleadingly claimed that the news media would have deemed the level of job creation and reduction in food stamp participation “impossible.” (The numbers are on par with figures reached before he took office.)He falsely claimed military spending had reached levels “nobody’s ever heard of.” (Congress authorized more money for the military several years under President Barack Obama.)He falsely claimed just 3 percent of detained unauthorized immigrants “come back for a trial.” (About 72 percent showed up in the 2017 fiscal year.)He misleadingly claimed Democrats voted to “execute” babies after birth. (Infants are rarely born alive after abortion procedures, and if they are, doctors do not kill them.)He misleadingly claimed “we just got” Veterans Choice. (The health care program has existed since 2014, though Mr. Trump did enact changes.)He falsely claimed “you couldn’t fire anybody in the V.A.” before he took office. (He signed a law that would make it easier to remove bad employees, but the department had been able to fire people before.)Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMy WorkoutThe three-time Stanley Cup champion is a fan of Joovv lights, ashwaganda herbs, PoV Sport and Lululemon. By Bee ShapiroDuncan Keith, 35, is a three-time Stanley Cup champion and Conn Smythe Trophy winner, who recently played his 1,000th professional hockey game, all with the Chicago Blackhawks. A small-town guy at heart, he splits his time between Chicago and Penticton, British Columbia, where he grew up. He took a moment out of his punishing National Hockey League season (his 14th!) to share his workout and wellness secrets, and why he is obsessed with infrared therapy lights. I get up around 8 a.m. In the 45 minutes before I leave the house, I have a routine: I go upstairs to my lab, where I have a bunch of little things that I do to stay healthy. I try to get as much sunlight as possible, but I also have Joovv lights — they’re red and infrared lights, which are very healing. Then I lay on my Bemer mat, which has electromagnetic currents, for eight minutes. I also have my supplements like glutathione and vitamin C, and liquid herbs like ashwaganda. Sometimes at night, I’ll sleep with a hydrogen inhaler. I’m a biohacker and a part-time hockey player. It’s basically better living with the help of science.During the season, I don’t do a whole lot of heavy lifting. I use PoV Sport, a machine that uses electricity to keep your muscles contracted. It’s about feeling strong without me having to do any excess movement. The off-season is when I work out the hardest. I’m in the gym about five times a week doing strength training. It’s all based on the Evo Ultrafit system that my strength trainer Jay Schroeder does. He’s based out of Phoenix. He trains a lot of professional football players and baseball players. It’s a lot of body-weight stuff and isometrics and speed Russian lunges. I’ll start ice skating in July. By the end of the August, I’m skating four to five times a week.For me, the biggest thing for my skin care is the Joovv light. But then my buddy is a real skin fanatic with lots of different things. He told me about this skin care company called Eminence, and once in a while I’ll use the exfoliator in the steam shower.I don’t love the hotel skin care stuff. I bring my own. I use Ancient Minerals body lotion that has magnesium in it. I order it off Amazon. My skin gets nice and moisturized but also gets a dose of magnesium. I use the Ben Greenfield’s serum, which is a mix of vitamin C and a bunch of different herbs. And then I do use cologne. I use the Tom Ford Neroli Portofino Acqua the most.I wouldn’t say I’m on any specific diet. I’ve read Dr. Mercola’s books and I followed his nutrition plan for a while. But now, I just eat healthy and the biggest thing is getting a lot of calories in. I’m always burning calories during the season, and I’m trying to keep my mass on.I read a lot of books and I listen to podcasts. My favorite is the Ben Greenfield fitness podcast. I guess you could call him a professional biohacker. I also listen to Aubrey Marcus and Joe Rogan.Right now, I’m reading “Medical Medium” by Anthony William. It’s nonfiction and about food and nutrition. I enjoy reading and learning about the body. The first chapter is a little bit goofy, but essentially it’s about how important carbs and fruits are. It goes against a lot of things you hear today. I try to dress nice, but I’m not always thinking about it. I really like AllSaints jeans. I get most of my jeans from there. If not that, then I like Hudson jeans or Vince sweatpants. They’re like a classier pair of sweats. Lululemon is always comfortable.I’ve been on ice skates ever since I was maybe 3 or 4. I was always trying to be a hockey player. But to play professionally, you have to have the determination and focus. I remember there were high school parties that I didn’t go to because I was always working on my game. I missed a lot of those times. You have to set a goal and not let anything get in your way. This involves not only yourself, but also your family and parents. They are all part of it.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaOrganizers of a high-profile summer tournament for world soccer’s biggest club teams have decided to keep Juventus and its star Cristiano Ronaldo away from the United States this year, eliminating the risk of the Portuguese star’s being detained by the authorities as part of a rape investigation in Las Vegas.While the bulk of the games in the tournament, the International Champions Cup, will take place in the United States as usual, Juventus’s games will be a part of the Asian version of the annual event. Juventus will be joined there — most likely in China and Singapore — by the Premier League teams Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United.Ronaldo, a five-time world player of the year, is in his first season in Italy’s top league after Juventus paid more than $114 million to acquire him from Real Madrid last July. Only months after his transfer, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened an investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it emerged in September; Ronaldo labeled it “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations. Juventus stood behind its star, too, expressing appreciation for his “great professionalism and dedication” and saying Mayorga’s accusations “do not change this opinion.”Juventus has a multiyear agreement to play in the International Champions Cup, which is organized by New York-based Relevent Sports. Ronaldo’s legal troubles played a role in shaping plans for Juventus’s participation, according to people familiar with this summer’s schedule, which will be released next week.A spokesman for Juventus, which is on course to win an eighth straight Italian league championship, said “going east” to Asia was normal after spending recent preseasons in the United States.While preseason tours are not seen as serious competition, they are vital for teams’ preparations ahead of the new season, and Juventus would have drawn unwanted scrutiny had it traveled to America without Ronaldo, its star attraction.The case against Ronaldo resurfaced after the German magazine Der Spiegel said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment by Ronaldo to settle it, from the whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the rape accusation, following up on information it said had been provided by the victim.Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said, where she says he sexually assaulted her.A number of the documents Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Mayorga. Ronaldo’s lawyers have questioned the authenticity of some of the documents published by Der Spiegel, but have not denied that Ronaldo and Mayorga had a sexual encounter, which they contend was consensual.According to her lawsuit, Mayorga reported an assault to the police later that day and underwent a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at the time. The case was reopened at Mayorga’s request in September.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperATLANTA — Gene Steratore is back at the Super Bowl, one year after he ruled on two crucial, razor-close touchdown catches.This time, his view will be from the broadcast booth, not the field. He was hired by CBS in June to be a rules analyst for its N.F.L. and college basketball telecasts.At 55, Steratore is young enough — and fit enough — to be a referee for several more years. But after reaching the top of that profession, he is relishing doing something new, and, in some ways even more high-profile than serving as chief cop on the biggest stage in American sports. He now explains the intricacies of the rule book to tens of millions of sports fans watching on television.“The excitement of the unknown, becoming a neophyte again, at a very high level, was extremely challenging to me,” Steratore said.Steratore has made some of the most scrutinized — and denigrated — N.F.L. calls of the last decade. He overturned a potential winning touchdown catch by Detroit’s Calvin Johnson and a Dez Bryant catch for Dallas in the playoffs four years ago. Then last February, he upheld disputed touchdown grabs made by Philadelphia’s Corey Clement and Zach Ertz.“Calvin Johnson didn’t catch it. Dez Bryant didn’t catch it. Corey Clement and Zach Ertz did catch it. O.K., it’s time to quit. That’s it. I’m out of here,” Steratore said while laughing during an interview days ahead of Super Bowl LIII.[Read about sticky gloves and amazing catches.]When Steratore started wearing zebra stripes, his current job did not exist. In 2010, Fox became the first network to hire an N.F.L. rules analyst: Mike Pereira, formerly the league’s director of officiating. CBS, NBC and ESPN have followed suit. Steratore is teamed with Jim Nantz, a veteran broadcaster, and Tony Romo, a wunderkind play predictor. But if the Super Bowl is anything like the conference championship games, Steratore will be the member of the broadcast team sitting under the brightest spotlight.In the N.F.C. title game, shown on Fox, the officials failed to call an obvious penalty on Los Angeles Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman late in the fourth quarter after he hit New Orleans Saints receiver Tommylee Lewis before the ball arrived. The Saints went on to kick a field goal, but the Rams tied the game and eventually won it in overtime.The noncall has dominated football chatter for the past two weeks. As a result, N.F.L. rules and their interpretation are top of mind.Steratore, calling the A.F.C. Championship, had his own mess, err, messes, to deal with. After barely speaking for the first three quarters, Steratore was asked to comment on six fourth-quarter plays, including one that produced a questionable roughing-the-passer penalty against Kansas City Chiefs defensive tackle Chris Jones.He defended Clete Blakeman, the referee who made the call, and then stated plainly that Blakeman got it wrong. “It’s a swing and a miss, and it’s a missed call for roughing the passer there,” Steratore said on the telecast.[Read what happens when players and officials chat on the field.]Steratore, one of seven brothers and sisters, comes from a family of referees. His older brother, Tony, is an N.F.L. official, and his younger brother, Michael, referees lower-division college basketball. His father, also named Gene, was a college football and basketball official, and a cousin, Frank, just officiated the college football national championship game.He is almost as close with his refereeing comrades. The head of the crew that botched the Robey-Coleman noncall, Bill Vinovich, was, with Steratore, one of the two active N.F.L. referees officiating Division I college basketball games.“Vinny and I have a special relationship,” Steratore said.He has said repeatedly this week that Vinovich’s crew got the call wrong, but also defended Vinovich, who told a pool reporter after the game that he had not seen the play.Steratore explained that Vinovich’s specific responsibility on the play was to watch the offensive line and the quarterback, not a pass 15 yards down the field.“If you turn your head when that ball leaves and that quarterback gets hit at his knee or below and he’s laying there out, and there is no flag, it is a much more egregious mistake than this one,” Steratore said.Gerald Austin, a former referee and ESPN rules analyst for six seasons, said parts of the analyst job were harder than being a referee.There are seven officials on the field, each covering a specific area, but a rules analyst must cover it all. While analysts are watching the ball, there could be a development across the field they are asked to comment on a few seconds later, with limited time to watch a replay.“Your decision has to be quicker and more on target in a shorter period of time,” Austin said.Steratore said his job also involved educating viewers about the process of ruling on difficult calls. He quickly explains the situation and generally what the officials are considering, and then, after a few replays, he goes over the specific things they are looking at to make a call.Only after he has seen every relevant angle does he say what the call should be.“The greatest officials in the world, they’re in the N.F.L.,” Steratore said. “It is fun to hate them, and it’s part of our game and we’re cool with that. We still need to have someone explaining to the world that these people are that good at what they do, even with their mistakes.”Steratore grew up in Uniontown, Pa., and now lives in Washington, Pa., both about an hour outside of Pittsburgh. He officiated 11 Steelers game in his career, including two against their division rivals, the Baltimore Ravens. Brian Billick, the former Ravens coach, would tell Steratore he wanted him to referee every one of those games.“His reverse psychology was that if it was a 50/50 play, I might be more inclined to go his way for fear of what the public may think,” Steratore said.Billick said his request was mostly tongue in cheek, though he thought it was “worth bringing up just to get him to think about it — maybe he’ll pause.”The referee for the Super Bowl will be John Parry, who was promoted to his job in 2007 after Vinovich temporarily retired because of health problems. Steratore knows Parry well, of course. His brother Tony officiated a previous Super Bowl alongside Parry, and Parry’s late father, David, was the supervisor of officials for the Big Ten.Steratore said he expected Parry to do a great job. But if he doesn’t, or when he inevitably has to deal with an incredibly tight play, Steratore will be ready.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA neat mental trick to understand the climate battle ahead.By Farhad ManjooOpinion Columnist“The Uninhabitable Earth” by David Wallace-Wells is the most terrifying book I have ever read. Its subject is climate change, and its method is scientific, but its mode is Old Testament. The book is a meticulously documented, white-knuckled tour through the cascading catastrophes that will soon engulf our warming planet: death by water, death by heat, death by hunger, death by thirst, death by disease, death by asphyxiation, death by political and civilizational collapse.And should they escape death, your children and grandchildren might subsist instead through proto-apocalyptic ruin. There is a strong chance that warming will reduce global economic output by more than 20 percent and a chance that output could fall by half — a toll you might better describe as at least one, and possibly two or three, Great Depressions. War will not merely break out; a continuing, all-out resource war might be the steady-state of the next chapter of human civilization.In 2017, when Mr. Wallace-Wells, a writer at New York Magazine, published similarly dire projections in a blockbuster article, he was criticized even by some climate scientists for reveling in the bleakest case. But his piece was one of the first articles I’d read that honestly drew out the most horrific possibilities of climate change, and in the two years since — years of hurricane and monsoon, fire and flood, mud slides, heat waves, the polar vortex — Mr. Wallace-Wells’s imagine-the-worst approach has become prescient. [Farhad Manjoo will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @fmanjoo]The Earth keeps surpassing all superlatives, right before our eyes. “The weather is cooperating,” Mr. Wallace-Wells told me recently.We should expect it to continue cooperating. I read this book with an unfolding mix of horror and hopelessness, the way you might learn of a terminal diagnosis that affects yourself and your family and everyone else you might ever hope to know. My Google searches over the past few weeks include queries like “global warming best cities” and “prepping 101.”What so riled me up was not just the projected devastation but also the obvious incapacity of our political system to even begin to comprehend the suffering to come, let alone mitigate it. It struck me that what we need to fight climate change is not just some new political plan but a whole new politics — the sort of thorough reimagining of stakes that humanity has only previously achieved during times of total war.But climate change is not war. There is no enemy, other than ourselves. And we are very bad, as individuals or collectively, at fighting ourselves over anything.This thought chilled me.Then, one late night after taking a dose of a kind of sleep medicine that is now widely available in California, I had an epiphany:Pretend it’s aliens. “Pretend” is a strong word, but we live in an age of delusion. People who think vaccines are accursed; NBA players who believe the planet is shaped more like a Frisbee than a basketball; full-grown adults who maintain, against all evidence, that immigration poses an existential threat to the United States — every day, we encounter rivers of rank ridiculousness. And for the most part we have come to grudgingly accept this ubiquity as the price of living in a digital wonderland.Yet if delusion can elevate the trivial to the top of cable news, why couldn’t it perform the same sleight of hand for the actually important?Last year, Avi Loeb, a renowned astrophysicist at Harvard, co-authored a paper speculating that a recently discovered interstellar object named Oumuamua “may be a fully operational probe sent intentionally to Earth’s vicinity by an alien civilization.” Mr. Loeb’s suggestion has been pooh-poohed by his academic colleagues. But experts, schmexperts, right?Allow yourself to imagine that Oumuamua isn’t just space rock. What if the thing was indeed captained by little green people, gangly and ferocious? And what if their leader let us know her plans for us — perhaps via tweet?I’m joking, sure; and I’ll admit I had a lot of fun playing out the scenes here. I’m picturing Logan Paul, elevated from YouTube star into commander of the U.S. Space Force, briefing President Trump on a plan to turn coal-power plants into peace museums as a way to fight the aliens. The president is on board, but he has one question: “Can we save America without saving the earth?”But I am not spinning out this yarn merely as a dumb joke about a blinkered president. Even for people who do believe in global warming, pretending that aliens are attacking the earth accomplishes a neat mental trick. It helps to frame the scope of the threat — civilizational, planet-encompassing — while also suggesting how we might respond: immediately, collectively and for as long as it takes.Before I understood the horrors that await us, I had thought of climate change as one of a grab-bag of important issues on the lefty to-do list: Give people health care, help them pay for college, fix the climate. The scale of potential devastation renders such visions laughable. Mitigating climate change and attending to its fallout isn’t going to be a policy plan passed by the next progressive administration. Instead, like the internet and nuclear weapons, the climate is going to be a permanent new feature of our politics. This will be a long-term existential battle that will require remaking every part of society, that might consume other worthy parts of a progressive agenda, that may involve costly and politically unpopular changes to our way of life for years to come, and will necessarily make some people worse off than if we did nothing. But that will be justified, because we understand the stakes: we are fighting murderous aliens.And all the while, the problem keeps getting worse. Not long ago, a planet that warms by 2 degrees Celsius over the course of the coming century was considered an unimaginable catastrophe to be avoided at any cost. Today, 2 degrees — a level of warming that might induce death from air pollution on the order of “25 Holocausts,” Mr. Wallace-Wells notes — is looking like our best hope. On our current track, we’re shooting for at least 3 degrees of warming, according to the United Nations; according to the Trump administration, we’re headed for at least 4 degrees.Four degrees of warming will wreak devastation unparalleled in human history. Hundreds of millions will die prematurely, large sections of the planet will be rendered uninhabitable, great herds of humanity will be on the run, and in the most prosperous remaining places, economic growth of any kind might be the exception rather than the norm.That’s the current path. Yet just about nobody in any position of power talks about global warming with anything reflecting the required level of honesty and alarm. The Green New Deal, the high-level strategy document put out last week by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and her allies, lacks any specificity for how we might accomplish its goals. Not even democratic socialists will frankly describe the costs of averting a warming planet. And the swiftness with which critics pounced on the Green New Deal suggests that even as the climate gets undeniably less hospitable, we’ll still fall into the same old political trap in which climate remains a small, partisan issue rather than the all-consuming emergency it ought to be.The whole thing is tragic and lazy, when what we need is heroism and bravery. If the aliens attacked, we’d do better. I’m sure of it. We would understand the stakes in the battle ahead. We would apprehend the necessity of sacrifice and perseverance. We would be able to perceive what is happening to our planet and our species as what it plainly is: a war for survival.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy and Billy WitzThey are sports that bring in little in the way of money or notoriety or attention compared with the behemoths, football and basketball.In college athletics, volleyball, water polo, sailing, tennis and soccer are relatively small-time affairs that don’t fill stadiums or drive billion-dollar media contracts, and that is why they are at the center of what was described as the broadest college admissions fraud the Justice Department has uncovered.Just like the high-profile sports like football and basketball, coaches in the so-called Olympic sports are generally allowed to reserve several slots each year for students who might not otherwise gain admission. These slots are often in addition to those reserved for the truly elite athletes who receive athletic scholarships or their equivalent at the most selective universities.The Justice Department investigation revealed how this alternative admission path can be exploited and corrupted, especially at the dozen elite universities that were a target.Unlike in football and basketball, there is little in the way of formal rankings or general knowledge about who might be good at what are seen as minor sports, so admissions officials usually have to take coaches at their word when they tell them that an applicant is worthy of a spot on a volleyball or soccer or sailing team, leaving them open to exploitation.That is more difficult to do in big sports. “In basketball and football, it’s out there in the open, compared to the less financially driven sports,” said Corey Evans, a basketball recruiting analyst at Rivals, the recruiting website.[Several college coaches were named in the federal indictment Tuesday. Read more about each of them.]In short order Tuesday, the sailing coach at Stanford was fired. The U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach was placed on leave, as was the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, and the men’s tennis coach at the University of Texas. J.B. Bird, a university spokesman, said Texas was “cooperating fully with the investigation. Integrity in admissions is vital to the academic and ethical standards of our university.” The university stated it believed Coach Michael Center’s actions did not involve “any other university employees or officers.”The water polo coach at the University of Southern California, Jovan Vavic, who has won 16 national championships, was fired after he was arrested at his hotel room early Tuesday morning in Hawaii, where he had traveled with the top-ranked women’s team for a match.The practice of reserving spots for athletes in minor sports has grown in recent years, people involved with college sports say, as more colleges have committed to pursuing excellence in every activity, from the chemistry lab to the tennis courts. Also, as the population continues to grow, slots at the most selective colleges are more competitive than ever.Stanford University said that last year, 47,450 students applied for admission, and the university accepted just 2,040. The acceptance rate of 4.29 percent was the lowest in Stanford’s history. No wonder, according to the complaint, the prominent Massachusetts real estate developer John B. Wilson paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2018 to secure a spot for his daughter at Stanford.Federal prosecutors did not charge students or universities with wrongdoing.At the heart of the scheme was William Singer, who, between 2011 and 2018, collected $25 million from parents to bribe coaches, and encouraged them to go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.According to the indictment, Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of the students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and fake honors not won. One student sat on a rowing machine to pass herself off as a rower. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, said “people in the volleyball community know who the elite athletes are, but there isn’t enough of a spectator base at most places.”Even fans of extraordinarily popular volleyball squads, like Nebraska’s, “are following who they’re bringing in,” she said, “but they may not be following their walk-ons. And there isn’t a community that is vested in who are the preferred walk-ons coming on to the volleyball team.”Meghan Dubyak, a spokeswoman for Georgetown University, said the university had fired its tennis coach, Gordon Ernst, in December 2017 after an internal investigation found he had violated university rules concerning admissions. She did not provide details. Ernst became the tennis coach at the University of Rhode Island last year. The university placed him on leave Tuesday.At U.C.L.A. Jorge Salcedo “will have no involvement with the soccer team while this matter is under review,” said Tod M. Tamberg, a spokesman for the university. “If the facts alleged are true, they represent a grave departure from the ethical standards we set for ourselves and the people who work here,” Mr. Tamberg said in a statement.The coach of the Yale soccer team was bribed at least $400,000 to recruit one student. Relatives of that applicant paid Mr. Singer $1.2 million. The coach, Rudy Meredith, stepped down in November.He told the athletics department then that “it is time to explore new possibilities and begin a different chapter in my life.”A month later, he was elected to the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame. He led the Bulldogs team to their first-ever N.C.A.A. tournament and first-ever unshared Ivy League title. Meredith did not return a request for comment at a number believed to belong to him.According to court filings, he began cooperating with the investigation in April 2018.Stanford University fired its head sailing coach, John Vandemoer, who allegedly took financial contributions to the sailing program from an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission.“Neither student came to Stanford,” a statement from Stanford said. “However, the alleged behavior runs completely counter to Stanford’s values.”No school is more deeply entwined in the scheme than U.S.C.Singer is accused of funneling more than $2 million into accounts controlled by administrators, coaches and former coaches at the school for their help in admitting his clients as student athletes, often with fabricated credentials and sometimes whether they played the sport or not.The central figure at U.S.C. is Donna Heinel, a senior administrator who for nearly a decade has overseen admissions of athletes. The affidavit charges Singer with depositing $1.3 million in U.S.C. accounts controlled by Heinel over a four-year period, and entering into a sham consulting agreement that paid her $20,000 per month beginning last July. She was fired Tuesday.The school’s water polo coach, Vavic, is accused of accepting $250,000 from Singer after two students were admitted as water polo players. Singer is also charged with making payments to a private school for Vavic’s children in the guise of a scholarship in exchange for a commitment to designate students as recruits in the future.Ali Khosroshahin, a former U.S.C. soccer coach, and Laura Janke, a former assistant, were accused of accepting $350,000 from Singer for a youth soccer club they coached in exchange for designating four students as recruits even though none of them played competitive soccer.Wake Forest volleyball coach Bill Ferguson, who arrived from U.S.C. in 2016, is charged with accepting $100,000 from Singer in exchange for helping a client’s daughter, who had been wait-listed by the school, gain admittance as a volleyball recruit.In a letter, U.S.C.’s interim president Wanda Austin said the university would “be implementing significant process and training enhancements to prevent anything like this from ever happening again. It is immensely disappointing that individuals would abuse their position at the university in this way.”The case is only the latest to rock U.S.C. The school’s football program was hit with severe N.C.A.A. sanctions in 2010 over payments made to Heisman Trophy winning running back Reggie Bush, and the basketball program is currently under investigation for the second time in the last decade. Former assistant coach Tony Bland pleaded guilty in January to accepting bribes to steer U.S.C. players to certain financial advisers.Prosecutors included in court filings a transcript of a somewhat bizarre taped exchange between Singer and Augustin Huneeus Jr., a vineyard owner in Northern California who would provide $250,000 to coaches and other sources that support water polo at U.S.C. in exchange for Coach Vavic securing his daughter’s admission.“You understand that [my daughter] is not worthy to be on that team,” Huneeus said of U.S.C.’s powerhouse water polo team.“He knows [s]he’s not coming to play, he knows all that,” Singer responded, referring to Vavic.Later, he reassured Huneeus that the arrangement would work out “because she’s a water polo player.”“But she’s not,” Huneeus said.An earlier version of this article misstated the profession of William Singer. He worked in the college counseling business; he is not an intellectual property lawyer.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerPeter D. Meldrum, who led the biotech company Myriad Genetics for 23 years, when it was at the heart of a landmark court battle involving whether two genes associated with breast cancer could be patented, died on Dec. 20 in Salt Lake City. He was 71.A spokesman for the company said the cause was a head injury sustained when he fell while playing touch football with his grandchildren.Mr. Meldrum and Mark Skolnick founded Myriad Genetics in 1991, and Mr. Meldrum became its chief executive the next year, taking it from a small start-up to a publicly traded company that by the time he retired in 2015 had annual revenues of more than $700 million. Its most visible product during that time was a test for mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes that could indicate a heightened risk of breast and ovarian cancer.The company had been granted patents on those genes, which, working with several partners, it had isolated after Mary-Claire King, then at the University of California, Berkeley, had traced it to a particular chromosome in 1990.Those patents, which the company vigorously defended during Mr. Meldrum’s tenure, enabled Myriad to monopolize the testing for mutations in the genes. A coalition of groups, including the Association for Molecular Pathology and the American Civil Liberties Union, challenged the patents in court, arguing that a part of the human body could not be patented and that Myriad’s monopoly was stifling research, inflating the cost of the test and preventing many women from getting tested.In June 2013, after years of back-and-forth rulings in lower courts, the Supreme Court invalidated the patents, ruling 9-0 that human genes, as opposed to those created synthetically, could not be patented.“A naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature and not patent eligible merely because it has been isolated,” Justice Clarence Thomas wrote for the court. “It is undisputed that Myriad did not create or alter any of the genetic information encoded in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes.”By that time, though, the company was moving toward a more comprehensive genetic test and had developed tests in other areas, like colon cancer and rheumatoid arthritis.Peter Durkee Meldrum was born on June 26, 1947, in Salt Lake City to Benjamin and Grace Durkee Meldrum. He received a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering in 1970 from the University of Utah, where he was on the cross-country team. After two years in the Army as a radiological officer, he returned to the university for graduate school, receiving a master’s degree in business administration in 1974.Mr. Meldrum married Catherine Marie Roper in 1970. She survives him, as do a son, Christopher; a brother, Daniel; and three grandsons.He started a venture capital firm, Founders Fund, and in 1991 joined forces with Dr. Skolnick, a genetics researcher and professor at the university, to start Myriad.“The vision for the company was that we saw a paradigm shift in medicine,” Mr. Meldrum said in 2009, when he was inducted into the Utah Technology Council’s Hall of Fame. The shift was from treating diseases to preventing them, using the newly emerging tools of genetics.“I told Mark when we started Myriad that the odds of us being successful were one in 10 in the technology field,” Mr. Meldrum recalled in 2016, “so this was probably going to go nowhere. But I told him it’s a fascinating science and it’s going to be fun.”In response to critics of the BRCA patents, Mr. Meldrum and others argued that the ability to secure such patents was vital to encouraging biotech companies to pursue research.“Obviously, it’s not only important for Myriad but to the biotechnology and agriculture industries to reinforce the fact that you can get patents on genes,” Mr. Meldrum said in 2011, when an appeals court ruled in the company’s favor in the case that eventually went to the Supreme Court. “That will only encourage innovation and development of products that can save lives and improve the quality of lives.”As for the cost issue, he argued in a letter to the editor printed in The New York Times in 2013 that insurance made the cost of the test — about $3,000 at the time — negligible for most women, and that the company also had a patient assistance program that paid much or all of the cost for eligible women. More than a million women had used the company’s test at that point, the letter said.In addition to his work at Myriad, Mr. Meldrum served on the boards of arts organizations like Ballet West and was noted for his philanthropic efforts on behalf of the arts. After retiring, he was chairman of the Meldrum Foundation, a family charity that supports the arts, education and humanitarian efforts.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWith the House Judiciary Committee opening a broad investigation of the Trump business and political enterprise, things are about to get real. By Michelle CottleMs. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.If you thought the past two years of inquiries into possible misbehavior by Trumpworld were brutal, brace yourself. Phase 2 is about to heat up.On Monday, the Democratic-led House Judiciary Committee announced a wide-ranging inquiry into “the alleged obstruction of justice, public corruption and other abuses of power by President Trump, his associates and members of his administration.”Citing two years of “near-daily attacks on our basic legal, ethical and constitutional rules and norms” by the president, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the committee’s chairman, asserted that, while it was important to respect the continuing criminal investigations, Congress “cannot rely on others to do the investigative work for us.” With Republican lawmakers having abdicated their oversight duties when they controlled the House, Mr. Nadler said, Democrats must now “begin building the public record.”As its opening move, Mr. Nadler’s committee has sent requests for documents to 81 individuals and entities associated with Mr. Trump, including Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Jared Kushner, Jeff Sessions, Hope Hicks, Paul Manafort, Steve Bannon and Roger Stone. The now-defunct Trump Foundation is on the list, as is the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the White House and the 58th Presidential Inaugural Committee. Also, David Pecker, the president’s close friend and chairman of the parent company of The National Enquirer.Look for the next several months to be a nonstop pageant of subpoenas, hearings and court challenges.Mr. Nadler’s panel is not alone in looking to impose accountability on a devious and dishonest president. But his investigation is special in at least one regard. As students of Congress — or of presidential scandals — can tell you, the House Judiciary Committee is where impeachment proceedings are born. And the areas on which Mr. Nadler will focus — obstruction of justice, public corruption and abuse of power — are precisely the sorts of high crimes and misdemeanors on which such cases are built.Not that Mr. Nadler is raring to impeach. Many Democrats worry that an attempt to remove the president could prompt a political backlash, and no one wants to repeat what happened in 1998, when House Republicans’ obsessive pursuit of President Bill Clinton contributed to the party taking an electoral beating.Even as he prepared to start this investigation, Mr. Nadler sought to tamp down expectations. “Impeachment is a long way down the road,” he said Sunday in an ABC News interview. Political investigations tend to be marathons rather than sprints, requiring the slow, meticulous accretion of evidential layers. It’s easy to forget how slowly and painfully the Watergate investigation unfolded. It was more than a year after John Dean’s congressional testimony that President Richard Nixon resigned. With his investigation, Mr. Nadler is looking to build a case for impeachment so compelling that it will have enough bipartisan support to survive the Republican-controlled Senate. Barring that, his investigation will serve to keep the heat on Mr. Trump, and perhaps keep the Democratic base at least somewhat placated, as the next election approaches. Mr. Nadler is right to telegraph restraint. This weekend, Kevin McCarthy, the top Republican in the House, said of Mr. Nadler’s inquiry: “I think Congressman Nadler decided to impeach the president the day the president won the election.”Mr. Trump cavalierly dismissed the sweeping document request at a White House luncheon with the North Dakota State Bison football team on Monday. “I cooperate all the time with everybody,” he said. “You know the beautiful thing — no collusion. It’s all a hoax.”Saturday, in a two-hour speech before the Conservative Political Action Conference, Mr. Trump offered a more pungent take on his tormentors, using a vulgarity to describe the special counsel inquiry and calling the investigations “collusion delusion.”But his core message remains the same: The president is perfectly content to burn down the nation to save his own hide.It is unclear what new crimes or abuses Mr. Nadler’s investigation might reveal. No matter how determined, Democrats in Congress lag far behind both the special counsel’s office and the prosecutors of the Southern District of New York. Yet the House still has a vital role to play in educating the public on the legal and ethical questions spiraling around this president.And there is much to illuminate, despite Mr. Trump’s repeated assertion that, absent hard evidence of his having directly colluded with Russia to subvert an American election, he can declare vindication. Just last week, in his testimony about Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee, Michael Cohen, the president’s longtime fixer and personal lawyer, detailed accusations of sleaziness and potential criminality that included tax fraud, bank fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy to violate campaign finance laws. Little of what Mr. Cohen shared was new, but it was important nonetheless, allowing the public its first opportunity to hear someone with intimate knowledge run through the catalog of the president’s shameless and lawless behavior.Look for Mr. Nadler’s effort to bring many more such brutal spectacles as he seeks to build his case. This is what oversight looks like. It is not for the faint of heart.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOur correspondent teleports to the past to give us this dispatch from a time when the Rams were Super Bowl-bound celebrities and the future in Los Angeles looked … O.K., it got complicated. By John BranchLOS ANGELES, January 1980 — It is an incredible time for fans of the Los Angeles Rams. Just when people thought the 1980s could not get off to a better start — especially after that mind-blowing Cheap Trick concert at the Forum on New Year’s Eve — the Rams are going to their first Super Bowl.It is the pinnacle for a proud franchise, the first major league sports team to make a permanent home on the West Coast, way back in 1946. The Rams have not won a championship since 1951, but Super Bowl XIV will surely be the first of many more Super Bowls for the Rams and their loyal fans in Los Angeles.(Note to the National Football League: Roman numerals might work for movie sequels like last year’s “Rocky II” and this year’s “Smokey and the Bandit II,” but it might be unreasonable for football games. Try to count in Roman all the way to something like Super Bowl 53.)Los Angeles is the consummate Rams town. That was evident from last year’s “Fantasy Island” episode featuring Coach Ray Malavasi and three players, Jim Youngblood, Anthony Davis and Frank Corral. The Rams played themselves, because everyone knows the Rams, especially when they wear team gear. Janet Leigh, Ken Berry, Annette Funicello and Larry Storch all played other people.It was the latest in a lasting connection between the Rams and Hollywood. The Rams had Bob Hope as a part-owner long before the Dodgers (1958) or the Lakers (1960) arrived. In fact, the Rams have been the perfect combination of sports and entertainment since receiver Elroy Hirsch, who was known as Crazylegs, starred in a movie about himself, and Bob Waterfield married Jane Russell.Yes, the Dodgers are popular, but who’s casting Ron Cey on “Fantasy Island”? (Steve Garvey and Tommy Lasorda, yes. Not Ron Cey.)The Lakers, meanwhile, have an intriguing 20-year-old rookie named Earvin Johnson, though he seems big for a point guard. But they play in a second-tier sports league whose championship games are on tape delay late at night. And what team would ever choose to play its home games in Inglewood?Aside from the Rams, the team with the brightest long-range prospects might be the Aztecs. Many predict soccer will be the most popular sport in the United States someday soon.Until then, this is the age of the Rams, just as it always has been. Who can forget Sid Gillman, Jon Arnett and Les Richter on “The Donna Reed Show”? Or Roman Gabriel as a “native” on “Gilligan’s Island”? Or Rosey Grier appearing everywhere from “The Man From U.N.C.L.E.” and “Bewitched” to “Roots” and “The Love Boat,” and telling children that, yes, “It’s All Right to Cry”?The Fearsome Foursome might be the fastest way to Hollywood. Look what it did for Deacon Jones, who made bookends of the 1970s with appearances on the “The Brady Bunch” (1971) and “Wonder Woman” (1978). Even now, Merlin Olsen stars on “Little House on the Prairie,” just as he did while he was playing. Casting directors might keep an eye on Fred Dryer.It is not just that Hollywood loves the Rams; the Rams love star power, too. Last season, they signed Joe Namath, often remembered for his role on “The Brady Bunch.” The Rams got rid of the strong-kneed quarterbacks James Harris and Ron Jaworski, and Namath retired from football, but it worked out because now the Rams have Pat Haden and Vince Ferragamo.The only better combination at quarterback would be Tom Jarrett and the ghost of Joe Pendleton in “Heaven Can Wait,” nominated for 13 Academy Awards last year.That movie was about a quarterback for the Rams who died and then came back in the body of the team’s other quarterback, who also died, and yet the movie still somehow predicted this week’s Super Bowl matchup with the Pittsburgh Steelers.It would be even more amazing if Warren Beatty wore No. 15 in the movie, like Ferragamo. Maybe someday the Los Angeles Rams will have a No. 16 at quarterback who leads them to the Super Bowl. His name probably won’t be Jarrett, but maybe something like it. Only in Los Angeles.The Rams themselves are like a movie script. The team’s owner, Carroll Rosenbloom, drowned under mysterious circumstances in Florida last off-season. Jonathan Winters, maybe the most famous of all the Rams fans, told jokes at the memorial service attended by Beatty, Jimmy Stewart, Diane Keaton and hundreds more. Most thought Steve Rosenbloom, a longtime team executive under his father’s tutelage, would take over the team, but Carroll Rosenbloom left ownership to his widow, Georgia — 20 years younger than her husband and married five times before. She was the first female N.F.L. owner, and promptly fired her stepson. She has been quite the conversation piece this week before Super Bowl XIV.“She is the platinum blond star/heroine/villainess of a Hollywood real-life drama that is two touchdowns better than ‘Days of Our Lives’ on that soap’s most gold digging, betraying, bizarrely gauche day of its life,” is how the Washington Post sportswriter Dave Kindred put it.Los Angeles fans just hope she steers the franchise the way her late husband did. The Rams are moving 35 miles down the freeway to Anaheim for the 1980 season (something about additional revenues from luxury boxes), but they still will be the Los Angeles Rams. Yes, she will soon marry for the seventh time, but her commitment to keeping the franchise in Southern California appears solid.Where else would they go? The Rams are one of those N.F.L. franchises perfectly matched to its location, like the Raiders in Oakland, the Browns in Cleveland and the Colts in Baltimore.Carroll Rosenbloom, actually, was the majority owner of the Baltimore Colts, all the way back to 1953. They won a bunch of championships, but he didn’t think the city appreciated them enough after winning Super Bowl V. So in 1972, he traded the Colts for the Rams, straight up, with Robert Irsay. Everyone won.Rosenbloom knew what he was doing. He hired Coach Chuck Knox in 1973, and the Rams have captured the division every year since. But they never had an offense as good as their defense, and they kept getting beat in the playoffs, so Rosenbloom brought in the former Rams coach George Allen in 1978 to toughen them up.Players complained, and Rosenbloom fired Allen after two preseason games, in a delicious Hollywood twist. That is how Malavasi, the offensive coordinator, got to be coach. Otherwise, George Allen would have been on “Fantasy Island.”The Rams were just 9-7 this season, and people were surprised when they finally beat the Cowboys in the playoffs. But now that they are playing in the Super Bowl (oddsmakers have them as the underdog), it is easy to imagine them being stout for a long time under Malavasi.One thing on their side: They have little competition in their division. Which team looks like it might be better than the Rams through the 1980s? The Falcons? The Saints? The hopeless 49ers were 2-14 this season under their first-year coach, Bill Walsh. They drafted a quarterback named Joe Montana, and he barely played.So starting with this weekend’s Super Bowl, the 1980s are perfectly lined up to be the Rams’ decade, just like the 1970s were, or almost were, if only the Rams actually won a championship.That might start on Sunday, with Super Bowl XIV at the Rose Bowl. It promises to be a good show. The Embraceable Ewes, the cheerleading squad so popular that it has been featured on “The Merv Griffin Show,” will be on the sideline.One Embraceable Ewe, Jenilee Harrison, has been on “CHiPs” and looks enough like Suzanne Somers that maybe she’ll join the cast of “Three’s Company” someday. Another is Cheryl Ladd’s stunt double on “Charlie’s Angels.”Ladd, incidentally, is singing the national anthem before the Super Bowl. And the halftime performance, as usual, should not be missed. The N.F.L. keeps one-upping itself. This year it features Up With People.Ah, 1980. What a time to be a Los Angeles Rams fan.POSTSCRIPT, 2019On Jan. 20, 1980, the Los Angeles Rams lost Super Bowl XIV to the Pittsburgh Steelers, 31-19. Ray Malavasi coached three more seasons (the Rams were 19-22) and died in 1987 of a heart attack in a California courthouse. Vince Ferragamo played in the N.F.L. until 1986 and won one more playoff game. Jenilee Harrison, the former Rams cheerleader, did join the cast of “Three’s Company” after Suzanne Somers departed.In Anaheim, behind running back Eric Dickerson and a string of forgettable quarterbacks, the Rams had some good seasons but could not keep up with the Walsh-Montana 49ers. The Rams returned to their habit of losing playoff games and fell into relative obscurity in Southern California.In hindsight, the end of days should have been recognized with this team video from the era, “Ram It.”Georgia Frontiere, the remarried owner, moved the Rams to St. Louis in 1995. They won Super Bowl XXXIV 20 years after the Los Angeles Rams lost Super Bowl XIV.The use of Roman numerals to mark Super Bowls persists.Frontiere died in 2008. Stan Kroenke, a minority owner of the team, bought a majority stake from the Rosenbloom family and moved the Rams back to Los Angeles in 2016.Rams crowds at the Los Angeles Coliseum averaged 72,429, 10th in the N.F.L. and about three-quarters of the stadium’s capacity. The Rams are building a stadium on the site of Hollywood Park in Inglewood. It is scheduled for completion in 2020.On Monday, six days before the first Los Angeles Rams Super Bowl in 39 years, articles about the Lakers and the Dodgers got more online traffic for The Los Angeles Times than articles about the Rams.Rams quarterback Jared Goff wears No. 16, just like the winning quarterback, Tom Jarrett, in “Heaven Can Wait.” In real life, he looks more like Ryan Gosling than Warren Beatty.John Branch is a sports reporter. He won the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for feature writing for “Snow Fall,” a story about a deadly avalanche in Washington State, and was also a finalist for the prize in 2012.  @JohnBranchNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Isabel KershnerJERUSALEM — Israelis were confronted with a rude new reality on Friday: a prime minister running for re-election while facing indictment for corruption.While there were hints that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu could be losing support, his right-wing allies appeared to be sticking with him and no one was foolish enough to write off a politician who still retains a strong base and has shown Houdini-like skill in escaping seemingly impossible jams before.The only certainty was that Israel was in for a wild ride between now and the April 9 ballot, with analysts predicting that the country’s political scene — loud, fractious and heated at the best of times — would become only more divisive as Mr. Netanyahu, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term, fights for his political life.“He splits the nation,” said Yehuda Ben Meir, an expert in public opinion at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “His are the politics of polarization and exaggeration. If he got any more polarizing he’d fall off the planet.”[The cases against Mr. Netanyahu, explained.]Mr. Netanyahu, who has dominated the Israeli political scene for a decade, faces a serious challenge from a newcomer, Benny Gantz, a retired military chief and leader of the new, centrist Blue and White party.After the announcement by the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, on Thursday that he intends to indict Mr. Netanyahu on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust, polls have pointed to a growing shift away from Mr. Netanyahu and his conservative Likud party and toward Mr. Gantz, whose military record could inoculate him against Mr. Netanyahu’s strongest line of attack, that he is the only one who can protect Israel’s security.Israel Hayom, the free newspaper sympathetic to Mr. Netanyahu and financed by Sheldon Adelson, the American casino billionaire and a longtime patron, buried its own poll in the Friday edition on page 19, after it put Blue and White a hefty nine seats ahead of Likud.If anything, experts said, Israel Hayom’s polls have tended to be skewed in Mr. Netanyahu’s favor.Still, it may be premature to measure the political effect of the attorney general’s announcement.“It’s too early for the polls to matter,” Mr. Ben Meir said. “It takes time for people to react.”The details of three separate, but interconnected, corruption cases in which Mr. Netanyahu is a suspect were spread over a 57-page document released by the Justice Ministry on Thursday.It included a chart with a monthly breakdown of the hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of cigars and Champagne supplied to the Netanyahus by a Hollywood producer and a millionaire businessman; back-room dealings with the publisher of a rival newspaper, Yediot Ahronot; and a dinner with an Israeli telecommunications mogul that led to a yearslong “give and take” relationship, as Mr. Mandelblit put it, with Mr. Netanyahu allegedly exchanging lucrative regulatory favors for positive coverage.But a deluge of leaks from the investigations over the past few months meant that for most Israelis, there was little shock value in the official revelations.Mr. Netanyahu, who denies any wrongdoing, went about his business as usual on Friday, hosting the president of Liberia, a former professional soccer player. “I told him that the next time he came we might play some football,” a seemingly jovial and relaxed Mr. Netanyahu said in a video.He also kept up his political invective, urging his supporters on Twitter, “Do not let the witch hunt against me confuse you.” Returning to a familiar theme, he denounced Mr. Gantz and his party as the “weak left” and said it would have to rely on the support of Arab parties to prevent a right-wing coalition.In the morning, public radio moved on from the investigations to discuss the problem of traumatized Israeli war veterans. People shopped for the sabbath.There was no reason to panic with the election still nearly 40 days off.“Forty days in an election season is the equivalent of two years in normal time,” wrote Amit Segal, an Israeli political analyst, in his weekly column in Friday’s Yediot Ahronot newspaper. “Until then, the agenda should change several times.”“No one’s jaw dropped yesterday,” he added, quoting the words of a popular Israeli song, “Lovers will love, haters will hate.”Opposition leaders have called on Mr. Netanyahu to resign, and so far, his right-wing allies appeared to still see him as their best bet to return to government. Most of his current coalition partners, and even a would-be successor within his Likud party, issued statements of support, saying the prime minister, like anybody else, deserved to be treated as innocent until proven guilty.Ayelet Frish, a former strategic consultant for Shimon Peres, said there was a perceptible shift among some of the “soft right” away from Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud to other parties. Whether they return home by April, she said, largely depends on Mr. Netanyahu.“Netanyahu is a champion at the negative campaign,” she said, “but it takes time to penetrate. We will have to wait until a minute before the elections.”In the 2015 election, Mr. Netanyahu was widely believed to have ensured a last-minute victory by scaring Jewish voters with a video demonizing Arab voters, saying left-wingers were busing them to the voting booths “in droves.” Palestinian-Arab citizens make up more than 20 percent of Israel’s population.The announcement on Thursday was an interim step in the prosecution. Mr. Netanyahu is now entitled to a hearing to challenge the charges before a formal indictment can be handed down.He insists that the hearing could overturn the attorney general’s decision and quash the cases against him, but his lawyers will need at least six months to prepare, experts say, and it is unlikely to take place before the election.Israeli criminal lawyers say that while the hearings often end in reduced charges or closed cases, that was unlikely in Mr. Netanyahu’s case. The investigation was closely supervised by the highest legal authorities and Mr. Mandelblit’s charges were conservative. He recommended the most serious charge, bribery, in only one case, while the state attorney’s office recommended bribery charges in all three.That makes a formal indictment all but certain. Whether Mr. Netanyahu will still be prime minister by then is not.OpinionBret StephensAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Eric SchmittThe four Americans who were killed by a suicide bomber in Syria on Wednesday were no strangers to America’s war zones overseas.One was a top military linguist who worked closely with the National Security Agency and was on her eighth deployment. One was a hard-pounding rebounder on his high school basketball team who joined the Army Special Forces and served a half-dozen times in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. And one was a former member of the Navy SEALs who later supervised the collection of intelligence for a Pentagon agency.A fourth American killed was an Arabic interpreter who spent much of her childhood living in Syria and worked for a private defense contractor.Before Wednesday, there had been only two American combat deaths in Syria since 2015.The suicide bombing in a restaurant in Manbij in northern Syria came shortly after President Trump called for a pullout of American troops from the country, asserting that the Islamic State — which claimed credit for the attack — had been “largely defeated.” But administration officials have struggled to articulate a coherent policy or plan for withdrawal.Senior military officials said on Friday that they had started to withdraw some nonessential equipment and were still preparing to pull out about 2,000 troops over the next four to six months. But it was not clear whether conditions on the ground would dictate the pace of withdrawal, as John Bolton, the president’s national security adviser, said this month.The attack came as eight Americans were meeting local leaders. Three of those Americans were wounded in the blast, which prompted American forces throughout northern Syria to increase operational security measures.On Friday, as some relatives of the victims made the sorrowing trek to Dover, Del., to recover the remains of their loved ones, old friends remembered them.Shannon M. Kent had a position that in the bureaucratic lingo of the military might sound like a ho-hum desk job: Navy chief cryptologic technician (interpretive).In reality, Ms. Kent had been deployed eight times into hard-fought war zones like Syria, serving in places where bombings and snipers were a common risk. She worked closely with the nation’s most secretive intelligence agency interpreting and assessing foreign communications and other intercepts, and her work was used in the highest reaches of the military.Ms. Kent, 35, grew up in upstate New York and graduated in 2001 from Stissing Mountain Junior/Senior High School in Pine Plains, N.Y., Tara Grieb, the school’s principal, told The Daily Freeman of Kingston, N.Y.Ms. Grieb said Ms. Kent was an honor student and performed in school plays, and graduated from SUNY Plattsburgh before enlisting in the Navy in 2003, where she rose to become a chief petty officer. Her father is a colonel and field commander with the New York State Police.Last year, she joined the unit she was with in Syria — the Navy’s Cryptologic Warfare Activity 66, which is based at Fort Meade, Md. Her commanding officer, Cmdr. Joseph Harrison, called her a “rock star.”Jonathan R. Farmer enrolled in a private college preparatory school after moving to Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., during his junior year of high school. He was an immediate presence.He was a 6-foot-4 teenager “with a grin as big as his shoulders,” recalled Ron Ream, a longtime athletic director and football coach at the Benjamin School. “He was one of those kids everyone gravitated toward.”One of those who quickly gravitated was Mr. Ream himself. Watching Mr. Farmer’s tough rebounding on the basketball court, he thought Mr. Farmer would be a standout on the football team, and tried to persuade him to play. But Mr. Farmer was focused on hoops.“It broke my heart,” Mr. Ream recalled. “You could see tight end written all over him.”On the basketball court, Mr. Farmer grabbed almost nine rebounds a game (and scored 15 points per game) his senior year and was named to The Palm Beach Post’s All-Area small schools team. Former coaches said he was one of the players who helped turn the program around.Clifton Perry, who was a teacher and coach at the school, said that while Mr. Farmer was always willing to help anyone who asked, on the court he was a “down-and-dirty rebounder, and the kind of guy who liked taking a charge.”“He was a really tough, gritty kind of kid,” said Mr. Perry, now the head equipment manager for Princeton University athletics.Though Mr. Perry had not known that Mr. Farmer joined the military — where he rose to the rank of chief warrant officer 2 — he said he was not surprised he wound up in a selective unit like Special Forces.“He was one of those kids who respected authority, but didn’t want to take ‘no’ for an answer,” Mr. Perry said.Mr. Farmer’s father, Duncan, told The Palm Beach Post in a brief video interview that he could not count how many times his son had traveled overseas with his unit, the 3rd Battalion of the 5th Special Forces Group, which was based in Fort Campbell, Ky.Asked the best way to describe his son, who was 37 and married with four children, he said: “Good man, good son, good father, good husband, good friend.”A neighbor in Palm Beach Gardens, Carol Ann Sternlieb, said she had been crying since 2 in the morning after learning Mr. Farmer had died.She said she spent the day frustrated because she had asked an official from her neighborhood association to lower the flag at the entrance to their development, but was told that could not happen until Mr. Trump ordered it.“This guy gave his life for his country,” Ms. Sternlieb said. “The least we can do is fly the flag at half-staff for him. He is a father of four, and his life is gone.”Scott A. Wirtz, or “Scotty” to friends, grew up in Missouri. When he joined the military, he sought out one of its most selective and difficult programs, graduating from the Navy’s Basic Underwater Demolition/SEAL training in 1998 and serving as part of the Navy SEALs until 2005.He deployed three times to the Middle East as a civilian with the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Pentagon’s intelligence-gathering operation. For the last two years, he had supervised the collection of intelligence in the same sort of restive regions to which he deployed with the SEALs.His death, said the Defense Intelligence Agency’s director, Lt. Gen. Robert P. Ashley Jr., was “a stark reminder of the dangerous missions we conduct for the nation and of the threats we work hard to mitigate.”Mr. Wirtz, 42, was also known for his jocular side, friends said.“He had that rare quality of being a laid-back, fun-loving dude, but would be all business when needed to be,” said Dean Kahu, who worked with him in the Middle East.In a sense, Mr. Kahu said, Mr. Wirtz’s deployments after he left the Navy continued to fill a desire that many high-level military operators have after they leave the service.The deployments provided, he said, “the same adrenaline rush as the military.”“Most of us need that in our lives once we have served in that tempo and at the highest level in our militaries,” Mr. Kahu said. “It never goes away.”Ghadir Taher, 27, was an Arabic interpreter from East Point, Ga., who was working in Syria for Valiant Integrated Services, a defense contractor. Ms. Taher was born in Syria and became a naturalized American citizen after immigrating in 2001, her younger brother Ali Taher said in a phone interview.She left the United States in May to translate for the military, Mr. Taher said. She not only wanted to assist American troops in coordinating with Syrians on the ground, but also to help them understand and grow to love the country’s culture, said Mary Trachian-Bradley, a friend.“Because of her background, she knew she could be a great resource to help,” Ms. Trachian-Bradley said in a phone interview. “She went there because she loved Syria. She believed in the future of Syria.”Ms. Taher studied at Georgia State University and worked in health care before she left for Syria.In a statement on Friday, Valiant Integrated Services called her “a talented and highly respected colleague loved by many who will be dearly missed.”To her loved ones in Georgia, Ms. Taher was a lively extrovert who loved dancing — sometimes coaxing her shy friends onto the floor with her, Ms. Trachian-Bradley said.In Syria, she treated the troops she worked with like family, Mr. Taher said. Although it was not part of her job description, she would often bring local ingredients to cook Syrian food for the troops.“The Syria we grew up in isn’t the Syria that it is now,” Mr. Taher said. “She knew the difference, but she still made it home.”Nick Madigan, Charlene Oldham, Kristi Berner and Julia Jacobs contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCity KitchenThink of it as a gardener’s pie: This leek and mushroom pie is topped with mashed potatoes but forgoes any meat.By David TanisFor most Americans, the word “pie” brings up images of apples (or some other fruit) encased in pastry and baked, cut into wedges and served for dessert, sometimes with a scoop of ice cream or a bit of whipped cream.But in Britain and throughout the Commonwealth, dessert pies are more often called tarts, and it’s meat pies that are legion. There are pork pies baked in pastry and served cold, and pies made with beef in gravy, served warm. There are individual hand pies, like Cornish pasties and diminutive football pies, sold at sporting events. Chicken pies and potpies and game pies, the list is long and varied.Still another type of pie has no pastry at all, but rather is covered with mashed potatoes. Shepherd’s pie, for example, is traditionally made with minced lamb and vegetables and baked with a mashed potato topping. If made with beef, however, it is referred to as cottage pie. Filled with seafood, it becomes fish pie. Leek pie is another, though the leeks are likely to be combined with ham or chicken, or both.So it should follow that an all-vegetable variation might be named gardener’s pie, or at least I like to think so.All sorts of vegetables are candidates for such a pie. A mixture of peas, lima beans and artichokes (plucked from the freezer section of the supermarket) makes a lovely pie. Carrots, parsnips and turnips, perhaps combined with chard or spinach, are other options for a meat-free version, but the choices are limited only by a cook’s imagination.I’m inclined to make a leek and mushroom filling, bound with an easily made white sauce perfumed with fresh thyme. Instead of thickening the sauce with flour (which requires making a roux), I use cornstarch, mainly because it’s simpler. It also makes the filling gluten-free. I add a touch of white miso for extra flavor.This meatless pie emerges from the oven fragrant, bubbling and golden. It is guaranteed to please vegetarians and carnivores alike.Recipe: Leek and Mushroom Cottage PieFollow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jan Ransom and Michael Gold[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Harvey Weinstein has started to cast his new “dream team” of lawyers to represent him against sexual assault charges in Manhattan, and two of them recently represented one of his most vocal accusers, the actress Rose McGowan.Mr. Weinstein, the movie mogul who became a symbol of the #MeToo movement after dozens of women accused him of sexual misconduct, has assembled a team including a former Manhattan prosecutor and three litigators with a history of representing celebrity clients, a person familiar with the discussions said.Two of the lawyers, Jose Baez and Ronald S. Sullivan Jr., also represented Ms. McGowan when she faced drug possession charges in Virginia. Ms. McGowan has been an outspoken critic of the movie producer and was one of the first women to come forward and accuse him of sexual misconduct. (She said Mr. Weinstein assaulted her in 1997, but charges were never filed.)Still, Mr. Sullivan said he and Mr. Baez did not believe that representing Mr. Weinstein after handling Ms. McGowan’s defense would pose an ethical issue because the cases are unrelated. “We are certain no conflict of interest exists,” he said.“Mr. Weinstein steadfastly maintains his innocence in this matter and we are looking forward to assisting Mr. Weinstein in his defense,” Mr. Sullivan said in a statement in which he confirmed that Mr. Weinstein had hired him and Mr. Baez.“This is an egregious conflict of interest,” Ms. McGowan told The Times in an email. “Baez is still listed as my attorney in the VA matter. Baez did nothing for my case and now I know why. A truly terrible human and a disgrace of a lawyer.”The other two lawyers who are joining Mr. Weinstein’s defense are Pamela Robillard Mackey, a Colorado defense lawyer, and Duncan Levin, a former New York prosecutor, the person with knowledge of the matter said.The four will replace Benjamin Brafman, the Manhattan defense lawyer with whom Mr. Weinstein parted ways last week. Mr. Brafman declined to comment.The New York Post first reported Mr. Weinstein’s new team.Mr. Baez and Mr. Sullivan will serve as Mr. Weinstein’s lead co-counsels, according to a second person with knowledge of the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations.It is possible that additional lawyers could be added to the team, the person said.Mr. Levin is a former federal prosecutor and a former senior assistant to the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr. He will provide strategic advice to the other three lawyers on the team, who have little experience with New York law or Mr. Vance’s office, the person said.While New York City is home to many skilled trial lawyers, including those well versed in handling complicated high-profile cases, Mr. Levin is the only one of the four lawyers Mr. Weinstein tapped to join his team who is based there.“We’re not that different from all others, but there are enough quirks in New York law that having a good local counsel is wisdom,” said Paul L. Shechtman, a longtime criminal defense lawyer in Manhattan.Mr. Weinstein began to make calls to other lawyers last month after a judge rejected Mr. Brafman’s argument that the case against Mr. Weinstein should be dismissed. Since then, he has pursued a plan to follow the template set out by O.J. Simpson in his murder trial in 1995, assembling a group with a variety of specialties.[Read more on Harvey Weinstein’s desire for a “dream team defense.”]With his new team, Mr. Weinstein has a set of lawyers with experience in high-profile cases.Mr. Baez, a lawyer based in Florida, represented Casey Anthony, who was acquitted in 2011 of charges that she murdered her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee.He also worked with Mr. Sullivan, a professor at Harvard Law School, to defend the football player Aaron Hernandez, who was acquitted in a double murder trial in Massachusetts in 2017 and later committed suicide. (Neither Mr. Baez nor Mr. Sullivan represented Mr. Hernandez in his murder trial in 2015, when he was found guilty in a conviction that was later nullified.)Bruce Green, a legal ethics expert at the Fordham University School of Law, said that Mr. Baez’s and Mr. Sullivan’s past representation of Ms. McGowan would only pose a conflict of interest if she were to be called as a witness in the case.By hiring Ms. Mackey, who works for a Denver-based law firm, Mr. Weinstein will add a prominent female lawyer to his legal team. Ms. Mackey also has experience in sexual assault cases. She represented the basketball player Kobe Bryant when he was accused of raping a 19-year-old woman in 2003 in Colorado.Mr. Bryant said at the time that he viewed their encounter as consensual, and the case was dropped after the woman said she would not testify.Ms. Mackey, who is out of the country, could not be reached immediately for comment.Mr. Weinstein, 66, faces five charges in Manhattan stemming from allegations that he raped one woman and performed oral sex on another against her will. The charges include two counts of predatory sexual assault, which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison. His trial is scheduled to begin in May.Mr. Weinstein has denied the allegations and has said the relationships were consensual.An earlier version of this article misstated the year Kobe Bryant was accused of rape. It was 2003, not 2013.AdvertisementTom Brady, Meek Mill, Drew Bledsoe and Kenny Chesney on the man caught up in a scandal.Tom Brady and Robert Kraft at the Super Bowl in 2019.CreditCreditPhoto Illustration by The New York Times; Kevin C. Cox/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Katherine Rosman and Ken BelsonWhen you find yourself at 77 a billionaire six times over and an N.F.L. team owner practically running out of fingers for Super Bowl rings, there aren’t a ton of opportunities you haven’t already enjoyed. Private jets are your subways. Weekends with pals at $2,000-a-night island resorts are your backyard barbecues. The question “what to do for kicks?” becomes harder to answer.That may be why Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, ended up on stage with Cardi B before Super Bowl LIII last month.Mr. Kraft was at the pregame party hosted by Michael G. Rubin, the 46-year-old owner of Fanatics, the online sports merchandise company, and an owner of the Philadelphia 76ers.Cardi B was performing “Money.” (It goes: “I like boardin’ jets, I like mornin’ sex, but nothing in this world that I like more than checks.”) “Get out there and dance,” said Meek Mill, just off the stage, to Mr. Rubin and Mr. Kraft.Mr. Rubin backed away. But Mr. Kraft, dressed in black and his signature Nike Air Force One sneakers, began to bust out some steps.“He was moving more than I thought he could move,” Meek Mill said later. The video spread around the web.It was about three weeks later, though, that news about Mr. Kraft really went viral. On Feb. 22, Mr. Kraft was charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting sex at a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. He pleaded not guilty.[Read more: Despite charges, Trump wants Robert Kraft at Super Bowl celebration.]On Tuesday, prosecutors made an offer to Mr. Kraft and 24 other men facing charges: a fine and community service in return for admitting that if their cases were to go to trial, the prosecutors would win.And on Wednesday, lawyers for Mr. Kraft and 14 other men filed a motion to prevent evidence in the case from being made public, including hidden camera video of the men at the massage parlor. As of Friday, Mr. Kraft, who declined to comment for this article, refused to sign the proposed deal.And on Saturday, he released a statement. “I am truly sorry. I know I have hurt and disappointed my family, my close friends, my co-workers, our fans and many others who rightfully hold me to a higher standard,” it said, in part. “Throughout my life, I have always tried to do the right thing. The last thing I would ever want to do is disrespect another human being. I have extraordinary respect for women; my morals and my soul were shaped by the most wonderful woman, the love of my life, who I was blessed to have as my partner for 50 years.”The Kraft camp is very sensitive to the inferences that Mr. Kraft’s solicitation charges have anything to do with what prosecutors say is a larger investigation into sex trafficking. All told, dozens of men have been charged with soliciting prostitution.“We have looked into it, we’ve looked at the charges brought, looked at the evidence, and there is zero evidence of human trafficking,” said William Burck, one of his attorneys.The operators of the Jupiter spa have not been charged with sex trafficking; the women Mr. Kraft is accused of soliciting are 45 and 58 years old and are licensed massage therapists.Another woman, who ran a spa in Vero Beach, has been charged with trafficking, and the investigation continues, as does a conversation about the role of men seeking sex for money in the trafficking economy.And Mr. Kraft’s name continues to propel the conversation about that investigation. “It makes my skin crawl to see him being smeared this way,” said Drew Bledsoe, the former Patriots quarterback.While Mr. Bledsoe and others who are sympathetic to Mr. Kraft say prosecutors are using the solicitation charges against him largely to publicize their broader investigation, it remains true that the sex trade often exploits women who have few or no means to escape it.As his lawyers fight the case, Mr. Kraft has been described by friends as conflicted. He is angry about what he did and ashamed of the embarrassment he has caused, yet insistent that he did nothing illegal and is defiant enough to hire a very expensive legal team to battle charges that most people settle quickly. Several people interviewed for this article say he continues, a month after the case became public, to break down in tears when discussing the situation.Casual friends of Mr. Kraft think the public reaction is overblown. “I can understand someone being 77 and going to a massage parlor,” said Larry King, 85. “He’s an older man who finds himself with a need and he gets that need satisfied. Why do we care?”Much of the fascination with this case stems from an as-yet unanswered question: Why was a gazillionaire going to a random strip mall massage parlor anyway?And the attendant tabloid headlines are a consequence of Mr. Kraft’s fame and wealth. Here is one of the richest men in the country — a pal of President Trump and the owner of a dominant football team — charged with a seedy offense.Now he must face the group he may care about as much as his family: his fellow N.F.L. team owners, who will gather starting Sunday at the Biltmore hotel in Phoenix for their annual meeting. Last year the talk there surrounded Colin Kaepernick and players kneeling during the national anthem. This year, the chatter will be about what penalty the league may impose upon Mr. Kraft for “conduct detrimental to the league” — code for making the owners look bad.Friends and colleagues in Mr. Kraft’s inner circle say that his current legal problems reveal his continuing struggle to recalibrate in the aftermath of the 2011 death of that “love of my life” — his wife, Myra. They married in 1963, when he was 22 and about to enroll in Harvard Business School and she was 21, going into her senior year at Brandeis University. They were married for 48 years when Mrs. Kraft died of ovarian cancer.“Bobby was so devastated when Myra died,” said Steven J. Comen, who has known Mr. Kraft since they were in kindergarten. “It took him a long time to get his bearings. If you can imagine becoming married when they were kids, and having kids when they essentially were still kids, and having the partnership to build something that was so spectacular — and her going through such a long period of suffering and then dying — well, it would have been devastating to anyone.”This wasn’t a situation where Mr. Kraft took care of the business and Mrs. Kraft saw to the home life, said Tom Brady, the Patriots’ quarterback for 19 years, who called from a family vacation to talk about his closeness with “RKK” and the Kraft family.“I remember bringing my oldest son, Jack, in to her office and her playing with him on the floor, with blocks and Legos,” Mr. Brady said. “She was very influential in my life and in many players’ lives. She was the mother of four sons, so she knew what it was like being around boys.”Mr. Kraft has had one serious girlfriend in the intervening years. He met Ricki Noel Lander, now 39, in 2012 at a party hosted by Steve Tisch, an owner of the New York Giants. They have gone through very public phases, like attending a New York City Ballet gala for which Ms. Lander served as a chair, along with Sarah Jessica Parker, in 2016, and she appeared on the field with him after Super Bowl wins, including after the most recent one. They also have maintained separate lives. In 2017, Ms. Lander became a mother to a baby girl. The Patriots released a statement that said, “While Robert Kraft is not the biological father, he is thrilled with Ricki’s blessing of having a healthy child.” (Attempts to reach Ms. Lander were unsuccessful.)Public and private reaction to Mr. Kraft’s most recent newsworthiness is complicated. Most of his fellow N.F.L. owners are reluctant to speak publicly about his crisis.But his fight against a relatively minor charge, using high-priced lawyers, is evidence of his sense of self-importance, possibly prolonging the media attention, according to at least one person familiar with that world. “The problem with Kraft is the problem with famous people, which is you bring famous attorneys and think they will do a better job,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., a former prosecutor and lawyer in Florida and son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. “It’s like going to a knife fight with the entire Seventh Army.”Some politicians, including Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said they intend to give the campaign donations they received from Mr. Kraft to groups focused on ending human trafficking, according to The Boston Globe. A group of survivors of sexual exploitation are planning to send a letter to the N.F.L. to ask that Mr. Kraft be barred from owning a team.These days, Mr. Kraft is leaning heavily on one of his closest friends, Mr. Rubin, 30 years his junior. Like Mr. Kraft, Mr. Rubin is a billionaire who is branching into professional sports ownership.“We talk on the phone five times a day,” said Mr. Rubin in an interview at the Fanatics office in New York. (Actually, he and Mr. Kraft like to FaceTime each other.)They were set up on a friend date in 2012 by Mr. Kraft’s oldest son, Jonathan Kraft, the president of the Kraft Group and the New England Patriots. Mr. Rubin was divorced, and so they were two single men with 10-digit bank accounts. “I’ll go as his date to events, he’ll come as my date,” Mr. Rubin said. “My girlfriend is jealous. She’ll say, ‘I wish you talked to me the way you talk to Robert.’”In Charlotte, N.C., during last month’s N.B.A. All-Star weekend, Mr. Rubin chatted with an N.B.A. employee who revealed that he was a die-hard Patriots fan. “So I FaceTime Robert,” Mr. Rubin said, “he’s got his shirt off, he’s in bed. I say to the kid, ‘Say hi to Robert,’ and then I leave the phone.”Mr. Rubin is trying to keep Mr. Kraft hip to pop culture, but some references get lost. In February, Mr. Rubin was at a 76ers game with the actress Emily Ratajkowski and her husband, Sebastian Bear-McClard, a producer, and Josh Ostrovsky, the Instagram personality known as the Fat Jew. Mr. Rubin FaceTimed Mr. Kraft and introduced him to Mr. Ostrovsky. Mr. Kraft was perplexed. “What do you mean he’s a fat Jew?” he said. Mr. Kraft and Meek Mill first bonded through Mr. Rubin during a guys’ weekend in Miami to attend the 2017 Major League Baseball All-Star Game.“I am from the ghettos of America, and he is one of the most powerful billionaires,” said Meek Mill of Mr. Kraft. “He is more down-to-earth and relatable than I expected him to be.” After the Patriots won their sixth Super Bowl, in February, Meek Mill gave Mr. Kraft his $200,000 diamond-encrusted necklace that spells out “Championships,” the title of his recent album. Mr. Kraft wore it during the victory parade. “My chain is like my Super Bowl trophy for rising above poverty and overcoming the system,” Meek Mill said. “I said to him, ‘I wear this chain every day. It’s my gift to you.’”Meek Mill said he had spoken to Mr. Kraft probably 30 times since the massage parlor scandal broke. In 2017, Meek Mill, now 31, was sentenced to two to four years in prison for violating his parole. (Meek Mill pleaded not guilty to the initial incident, when he was 19, and said if he had done what he was accused of, he would be dead. “Everyone knows what happens to a black kid that points a gun at police officers,” he said.)Meek Mill’s friends, including Mr. Kraft, talked to him frequently while he was in prison and were outraged by his situation. Mr. Kraft visited him in prison a year ago and spoke to the press about injustice afterward.The N.F.L.’s inner circle is dominated by billionaires who lean to the right. Despite his friendship with Mr. Trump, Mr. Kraft is considered one of the more liberal owners, backing an array of progressive causes and voting Democratic more often than not.“He is one of the biggest faces in America, and this is a smart guy saying to the world, ‘This is a good kid.’” Meek Mill said. “It was a big deal for me.”After Meek Mill was released, Mr. Rubin asked Mr. Kraft to join his efforts to create an organization called Reform Alliance, to fight for changes to criminal justice practices. The eight founders, including Jay-Z and Daniel Loeb, a billionaire investor, pledged a combined $50 million.Meek Mill sees echoes of his experiences in Mr. Kraft’s current predicament. “They aligned his name with a different set of charges that weren’t tied to him at all,” he said.There are big differences, and Meek Mill has made sure Mr. Kraft appreciates them too. “I said it to Robert the other day, ‘Someone as powerful as you, you have done so much good in the world and brung so much to America, you see what they did to you,’” Meek Mill said. “I said to him, ‘Imagine someone that comes from poverty in the ghetto who doesn’t have people to speak up for them on their behalf. It happens in my community every day.’”Mr. Kraft grew up in Brookline, Mass., loving sports, though joining teams was difficult because he couldn’t play on the Sabbath. He liked the Boston Braves baseball team.He went to college at Columbia, on scholarship. As a senior, he went back to Boston for a football game and spotted Myra Hiatt in a delicatessen. He waited until her date went to the restroom and then introduced himself. He went to the library on the Brandeis campus the next day to look her up, and they married the following year.Myra finished college, and they had four sons; three work for the family business. After attending Harvard Business School, Mr. Kraft went to work for his father-in-law. Mr. Kraft had his own vision for the company, and left but eventually purchased the business and began to build a fortune in paper and packaging. As he did, he and Mrs. Kraft established themselves as a power couple in Boston’s charity scene. The family has given away “hundreds of millions of dollars,” a Patriots spokesman said.Foundations backed by Mr. Kraft are known to make unexpected calls to small organizations in which Mr. Kraft pledges a gift ranging from $100,000 to a few million dollars, urging the nonprofit group to create donor-match campaigns.A few years ago, Lisa Goldblatt Grace, a founder of My Life My Choice, received such a call, from an executive at the Patriots Foundation. The mission of My Life My Choice is to support young survivors of sexual exploitation and the commercial sex industry. The foundation gave the group $100,000, with a matching incentive. The money allowed the group to hire another mentor, Ms. Grace said.“We were heartbroken when we heard the news that Robert Kraft had been charged,” Ms. Grace said. “The most important thing we can do is focus on the victims and shine a light that helps people to understand that this is a multi-billion-dollar industry that preys on the most vulnerable.”In 1994, Mr. Kraft paid $172 million for the Patriots, at the time the largest sum paid for a professional sports franchise. Mr. Kraft and his son Jonathan flew back from the meeting to Boston (middle seats in coach on T.W.A.) to tell Mrs. Kraft the deal was done. She was worried that the high price tag would make it difficult for the family to continue its philanthropy. Mr. Kraft promised her that owning an N.F.L. team would give them an even larger platform to support their causes.The next night, Mrs. Kraft overheard her husband on the phone with the head coach, Bill Parcells. Mr. Parcells said he needed $10 million for a contract to sign a player.She was not happy. “The summer house better be in my name,” she told him.The investment turned out to be beyond sound. In 2000 Mr. Kraft lured Bill Belichick away from the Patriots’ division rival New York Jets. The next year, Mr. Brady became the team’s starting quarterback, and the Patriots raced all the way to their first Super Bowl win.The Belichick-Brady tandem has shattered records ever since. Forbes estimates that the Patriots are the second-most-valuable N.F.L. franchise, worth an estimated $3.8 billion.The team’s success has also burnished Mr. Kraft’s status inside the N.F.L., where owners can be hypercompetitive and jealous. By most accounts, Mr. Kraft has become the league’s most influential owner, with seats on the powerful broadcasting, labor and finance committees. His contacts in media circles make him indispensable during negotiations with the television networks that provide the bulk of the league’s income. One owner said that these multi-billion-dollar deals are typically negotiated by three people: the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell; Brian Rolapp, the league’s media chief; and Mr. Kraft.Now, amid what friends describe as Mr. Kraft’s unyielding anguish over his travails and the uncertainties he is confronting in the legal system, the N.F.L. and the court of public opinion, Mr. Kraft’s BFFs are rallying around him, and are eager to discuss the depth of their respect.Despite the solicitation charges, Mr. Trump has said he wants Mr. Kraft to attend a White House reception celebrating the Patriots’ recent Super Bowl victory.Mr. Brady is also standing by his longtime friend. “I’ve been with the organization 19 years and I’ve been through a lot,” Mr. Brady said. “He has been by me and supported me. That’s hard to do these days — to have longtime relationships like we do is a challenge.” Mr. Bledsoe, the former Patriots quarterback, said that even in the 18 years since he left the team, he still answers his mobile phone when the caller ID says “BLOCKED,” in case it’s Mr. Kraft, whom he calls “RKK.” “RKK has achieved success on a scale that few people ever achieved and kept his soul intact all the way through,” said Mr. Bledsoe, now a winemaker in Walla Walla, Wash. On a golf outing a few years ago, Mr. Bledsoe asked Mr. Kraft to tell him the one thing that matters most in building a successful organization. “‘There is no one thing,’” Mr. Bledsoe said he said. “‘There are no small details.’”Kenny Chesney, the country music star, said: “Robert has become in many ways a very strong mentor in my life. He believes that music and sports bring people together like nothing else.”Fifteen years ago, Mr. Chesney was dreaming of performing concerts in N.F.L. stadiums, which hold three to four times more fans than other large arenas. “Robert was the first N.F.L. owner to take a chance on a guy from East Tennessee,” Mr. Chesney said. He has played Gillette Stadium, home of the Patriots, in Foxborough, Mass., 19 times, more than any other musical artist. He has lunch with Mr. Kraft in his office each time he plays there.“He set me on a path and helped me see a blueprint for how to change the scale of my business and the scope of my touring life,” Mr. Chesney said.Mr. Kraft has made only a few public appearances since he was charged, including at parties hosted by fellow billionaires Ron Perelman and Barry Diller on Oscar weekend in Los Angeles.Mr. Rubin called Mr. Kraft and urged him to come to Philadelphia for Meek Mill’s first hometown solo concert since being released from prison last year. On March 15, Mr. Kraft hung out backstage while Meek Mill performed at the Met Philadelphia, a recently refurbished opera house. Mr. Kraft spent much of his time palling around with Meek Mill’s son and his son’s half brother.Inevitably, the chatter between Mr. Kraft and the kids turned to football. So Mr. Kraft pulled out his phone and performed his favorite party trick: He FaceTimed Tom Brady and handed the phone to the boys. Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  Katherine Rosman is a features reporter. She covers media, social media and celebrity — and the way in which they intersect and collide. She joined The Times in 2014.  @katierosman AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWashington MemoBy Mark LandlerWASHINGTON — In a week of White House tantrums and fast-food dinners, of canceled speeches and aborted congressional trips, it seemed fitting that Karen Pence, the wife of Vice President Mike Pence, announced that she was going back to her job as an elementary schoolteacher.Washington these days resembles nothing so much as an unruly sandbox. As the shutdown drags on, septuagenarian politicians are squabbling like 7-year-olds, House freshmen staged a boisterous protest march to the empty office of the Senate majority leader and the president’s lawyer went spectacularly off the rails in a television interview. There did not seem to be an adult in sight.“I am excited to be back in the classroom and doing what I love to do, which is to teach art,” Ms. Pence said in a statement about her new job, conjuring up a world of finger-painting and construction paper that seemed more civilized than the “Lord of the Flies” playground inhabited by her husband and his colleagues.In that world, President Trump sent Speaker Nancy Pelosi a letter telling her that he was postponing her trip with a congressional delegation to visit American troops in Afghanistan. The president’s salvo came 24 hours after Ms. Pelosi informed Mr. Trump that because of the shutdown, she was rescinding her invitation to him to deliver a State of the Union address in the House chamber.Democrats celebrated Ms. Pelosi’s letter as a power move by a seasoned Washington heavyweight. But the speaker could not resist one last taunt: Mr. Trump, she said almost under her breath to a scrum of reporters, could always deliver the speech from the Oval Office if he wanted.Mr. Trump struck back in characteristic style, denying Ms. Pelosi access to a military plane to take her to Afghanistan. There was to have been a stop in Brussels, where she would have met with NATO officials.“In light of the 800,000 great American workers not receiving pay, I am sure you would agree that postponing this public relations event is totally appropriate,” Mr. Trump wrote, mimicking the faux-solicitous tone of her letter to him. “Obviously,” he added, “if you would like to make your journey by flying commercial, that would certainly be your prerogative.”Representative Adam B. Schiff, a California Democrat who was scheduled to accompany Ms. Pelosi to Afghanistan and Belgium, swiftly accused Mr. Trump of “fifth-grade conduct.” Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, said, “He’s very childlike in his view of the world. It’s all about him.”Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat from the other, more grown-up Washington, said she recognized much of the current behavior in the nation’s capital from her time as a preschool teacher. Every classroom, she said, had the full range of personalities, including bullies and victims, and the trick, she said, was not to cede to the bully or allow tantrums to disrupt the entire classroom.“My experience is, you let them calm down and come back to you peacefully before you give them anything,” Ms. Murray said. “You don’t hand them that cookie or piece of candy when they’re yelling and screaming because then you will be doing that until they’re 18 years old.”Ms. Murray, unsurprisingly, was generous toward her fellow Democrat, Ms. Pelosi. She likened her to a sure-footed teacher in her handling of Mr. Trump. Certainly the new speaker, who has fact-checked Mr. Trump during meetings and publicly warned him not to disparage the power of her Democratic majority, seems to have gotten under the president’s skin in a way that few others have during his two years in Washington.Yet the tit-for-tat between the speaker and the president suggested something else: that despite his inability to change the politics or institutions of Washington, Mr. Trump has managed to change its culture. The capital now plays by his freewheeling rules.“He does generally force people to play down to his level,” said Michael D’Antonio, a biographer of Mr. Trump. “It’s impossible to deal with him in any other way. It takes almost a Zen master to resist being provoked by him.”There is no doubt that Trump-like behavior is proliferating. When the House freshmen, all Democrats, arrived at the office of the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, on Wednesday to deliver a letter demanding that he reopen the government, they quickly discovered he was not there.One of Mr. McConnell’s deputies, Don Stewart, accepted the letter and promised to give it to his boss. The lawmakers then milled outside Mr. McConnell’s office to plot their next move, as tourists gawked and cameras clicked, particularly at Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York and a media darling.“Oh, my God, this is your life!” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as she watched the hubbub swirling around her colleague.It was the kind of spectacle that Mr. Trump would appreciate.Mr. Trump seemed less likely to appreciate the spectacle that unfolded a few hours later on CNN. One of his personal lawyers, Rudolph W. Giuliani, told the host Chris Cuomo, “I never said there was no collusion between the campaign or between people in the campaign” — a statement that made him the first Trump adviser to concede that it was possible that members of the Trump campaign had worked with Russia to sabotage the 2016 presidential election.The next morning, Mr. Giuliani walked back his remarks, saying, “I have no knowledge of any collusion by any of the thousands of people who worked on the campaign.” For good measure, he added that Hillary Clinton’s campaign was the one guilty of collusion with Russia.Nor could Mr. Trump have appreciated fake copies of The Washington Post that hoaxers handed out to passers-by outside the White House and elsewhere in the capital. “Unpresidented,” a banner headline said. “Trump Hastily Departs White House, Ending Crisis.”Like much in Mr. Trump’s Washington, even Ms. Pence’s decision to return to teaching is not without an undertone. The private Christian school where she will teach does not allow gay students and requires employees to affirm that marriage should only be between a man and a woman.For the president, the most comforting moment of this turbulent week may have come on Monday, when he welcomed the Clemson University football team, winners of the college football championship, to the White House for a meal of burgers and fish sandwiches from McDonald’s, Wendy’s and Burger King.The image of fast food under the twinkling candelabra of the State Dining Room — which Mr. Trump said was a necessity, given the lack of White House staff because of the shutdown — gave rise to a thousand snarky tweets and jokes on late-night television.“I thought it was a joke,” said one Clemson athlete, overheard in a video shared on Twitter.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the position of Speaker Nancy Pelosi. She is a representative in Congress and the speaker of the House, not a senator.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Austin RamzyA soccer player who was jailed in Thailand and faced being sent back to his native Bahrain, where he said he would be imprisoned and tortured, was released Monday after Thai prosecutors dropped the extradition case against him.On Tuesday afternoon, the player, Hakeem al-Araibi, arrived back in Australia, where he has refugee status. He was greeted at the airport in Melbourne by a swarm of well-wishers, who started singing, “You’ll Never Walk Alone,” a popular soccer anthem.“Amazing to see all the people here,” he said. “I’m going to die in Australia. Australia is my country,” he added. “I love Australia.”Mr. al-Araibi, 25, who had been a star defender for the Bahrain national soccer team, fled the small Gulf nation in 2011 during a crackdown on Arab Spring protesters. He said he had been tortured by government security forces. He has been playing soccer for a minor team in Melbourne, Australia.After his arrest in November at an airport in Bangkok, he became the focus of lobbying by diplomats, prominent sports figures and a social media campaign under the hashtag #savehakeem.Mr. al-Araibi left for Australia as soon as his departure was approved.“This is the best outcome,” said his lawyer, Natalie Bergman. “It should have happened from the beginning, but later is better than nothing.”After Mr. al-Araibi’s arrival in Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne released a joint statement commending the Thai government for its decision and noting the “constructive dialogue that we have had with Bahrain in helping to resolve this issue.”The statement added: “We know all Australians will deeply appreciate the decision, allowing him to return to his wife, family and friends.”Mr. al-Araibi traveled to Thailand last year for a honeymoon and was detained with his wife. She was released, but Mr. al-Araibi remained in detention as Bahrain pursued his extradition.He had been convicted in absentia and sentenced to 10 years in prison for charges including the burning of a police station, which he said occurred while he was playing in a televised match.The royal family of Bahrain, which is Sunni Muslim, has pursued an aggressive crackdown against calls for democracy from the kingdom’s Shiite Muslim majority, including a campaign of widespread arrests and many convictions on what human rights groups say are trumped-up charges.Thailand, which has been run by a military junta since a 2014 coup, has sent people fleeing political oppression back to countries including China, raising fears that Mr. al-Araibi would also be returned.But the country has also shown signs that it can be moved by international pressure.Last month, a Saudi woman who said she was fleeing abuse from her family barricaded herself in a Bangkok airport hotel room and rallied support to her cause online. The woman, Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, 18, was allowed to leave the airport after a two-day standoff and was granted asylum in Canada.Mr. al-Araibi received widespread support from the international sports world, including FIFA, the international body that oversees global soccer; the International Olympic Committee; and the World Players Association, an umbrella group representing 85,000 professional athletes worldwide.Jamie Vardy, a striker for the English Premier League club Leicester City, expressed support for Mr. al-Araibi on Twitter, and Craig Foster, a broadcaster and former captain of the Australian national men’s team, was a prominent advocate for his release.“This is a big victory for that global campaign and marks the fact that football will have to play an important role in human rights going forward,” said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch. “They call football the beautiful game, and it is a beautiful day for the beautiful game.”Mr. Foster, who lobbied FIFA officials and shouted his support to Mr. al-Araibi when he appeared at a hearing last week in leg shackles, expressed his gratitude to the Thai government for dropping the case.“Most important thing now is Hakeem’s immediate well-being,” Mr. Foster said on Twitter after the ruling was announced. “Sure embassy staff will take care of him, there’ll be tears there tonight, as there are in our household right now.”When Mr. al-Araibi arrived in Melbourne, Mr. Foster placed his arms around his shoulders.“To see him back here on home soil today speaks volumes about the character, the values and the pride that we have as Australians,” Mr. Foster said.The Thai foreign minister, Don Pramudwinai, visited Bahrain and met on Sunday with Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, the crown prince, the state-run Bahrain News Agency reported. No details of their discussion were released.The decision to drop the case came after the government of Bahrain told Thai diplomats that it did not want to pursue it, said Chatchom Akapin, director general for international affairs for the Thai attorney general’s office.“We got information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this morning that Bahrain is not interested in extraditing Hakeem anymore,” he said. “Therefore, the attorney general office decided it was no use to pursue the case.”Follow Austin Ramzy on Twitter: @austinramzy.Muktita Suhartono and Jenina Ibañez contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNSam Trabucco gives us a weekend workout.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I’ll get to the clues quickly today because I thought there were so many sticklers, but this puzzle was very twinny, or crossy, for me — lots of paired entries. Some of them had something in common, some were nigh impossible to complete, some combined to aid me greatly, but this facet was one of the takeaways for me today.As always, I loved Sam Trabucco’s style and got a kick out of his cluing and most of today’s nine debuts. (The meh ones were I COULDN’T and HOME CARE, not that there’s anything wrong with either one, they just weren’t remarkable. Certainly not a constructor’s fault.)The first clues that delighted me were VILA and VANILLI, which I would call a personal reverse Natick, since I was able to ink them in with total confidence. I misremembered Bob Vila as a character on a sitcom, “Home Improvement,” not an educational show, “Home Again,” but I’m still a little afraid to get on a ladder — no D.I.Y. expert here. I also misremembered the whole Milli Vanilli story, which turned very tragic, but their music is very embedded in my mind with my college experience, so any mention makes me pleasantly nostalgic (this is only the second time we’ve seen VANILLI, and it’s been more than 20 years). My college memories are free of PEP BANDS, by the way, which was also a debut. After picking through much of the upper right, my letters spread south and west, petering out at the lower left corner, which stumped me most. There was tough stuff, though, throughout this whole grid.A couple of misdirections I was fond of were clues for ESP and GLAND, and there were fun clues galore. ARIE, clued as such, made me grimace for a second, but I didn’t dwell on it.13A: I thought “overrode” had to be the thing here, for “Domineered,” and rolled my eyes a little at OVERBORE, which doesn’t strike me as a word. Wrong! It has even been in the puzzle before, multiple times. I was not overbored by this grid today, Mr. Trabucco, I feel you went quite overboard to amuse us. 15A: I am pre-nostalgic for the group in question here, the modern and still-existent GORILLAZ. This is one of those very insidery double clues, by the way; one of the founders of GORILLAZ is Damon Albarn, who is also in Blur, one of the bands mentioned in the crossing clue at 4D. I actually knew this, but I didn’t think of him as a poster child for BRITPOP (even though he is, as I learned once I consulted the world); I also had always assumed that GORILLAZ was a hipster misspelling of “guerrillas,” not anything to do with the Monkees. So there’s another bit of critical life information we’ve acquired today. I had never actually seen the humans behind the band in question, because they are often represented by cartoon characters, even when I’ve seen videos of them performing live.16A: Right after a 21st-century pop music reference, bam! An abstruse compendium of world literary figures like Jeppe Aakjaer, a novelist who “was intensely concerned with social misery and the need for reform.” BENET’S Reader’s Encyclopedia was first edited, in 1948, by William Rose Benét, older brother of Stephen Vincent. There was an edition in 2008; there may be one in the works right now.44A: In a rebuttal to the old “Plus ça change” argument, some aficionados among you may find it bemusing that this word, LICTORS, and its singular variant, were considered entries for early in the week, including a Monday puzzle back in 1954 (clued as “Fasces bearer in ancient Rome”). I was inordinately stumped by this entry and hit a dead end at its crossing with 45D, too, as I knew nothing of California’s Fort ORD. That little filler word is usually clued as an airport. 7D: It felt as if the four 12-letter entries in this puzzle split into pairs, with this one, the punnily clued DRAMA COACHES, crossing IM SPEECHLESS.8D, which referenced the top entry on a Sports Illustrated list that I had certainly heard about but never examined, was one half of the other pair of 12-letter entries. The entry here is MIRACLE ON ICE — the unlikely 1980 Olympic hockey victory that was all rife with Cold War gravitas and rah rah United States patriotism. I’m just not familiar, except that I worked with one of the Times reporters who covered it, the perspicacious Craig Whitney, and he was still telling pretty riveting stories 25 years later in the newsroom. (It looks as if he took some part in a documentary, in case this event is also your No. 1 and you want more, more, more.)As far as 27A, the 12-letter entry crossing the above, this idiom made me think of my No. 1 “moment in sports history,” which was at 13 on the Sports Illustrated list. Can a horse PUT ON A CLINIC? It’s not like we could ask any of the rivals he left far, far behind in the dust; they would just shake their heads and murmur “neigh.” Is it silly that I get a little teary whenever I see Secretariat looking as if he could have soared 10 more miles with a sack of potatoes on his back?It took me forever to get the middle of this grid to work, to the point where I’m thrilled with how it turned out (ARIE and EERO notwithstanding). Often with this sort of design, though, you get the middle to work and then find that one of the corners won’t cooperate — I was happy to skate by here, though I’m not exactly in love with the SW (it’s certainly less colorful than I’d hope for, and LICTORS is a bit of a deep cut).I’m not one to include a ton of sports stuff in a crossword, so consider this grid with its skiing, hockey, football and ESPN references to be an anomaly. Sports are more my dad’s speed, so it’s a fun coincidence that it’s his birthday today! Happy birthday! I hope this crossword puzzle makes up for all the sports I quit during elementary school.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherFor the most part, Sunday’s results from Serie C, the third level of Italian soccer, look like those of any other league around the world: Albissola 1, Arezzo 2. Alessandria 0, Arzachena 1. Cuneo 20, Pro Piacenza 0.Wait, what?That eye-popping score, and it’s not a typo, is part of a larger tale. Pro Piacenza 1919 is a venerable team from the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. But the team has run into financial troubles, and most of its players and staff members, sick of not getting paid, walked out weeks ago.The team was penalized 8 points by the federation, dropping it to the rock bottom of the standings, and forfeited three straight matches.One more forfeit and the team could be disqualified from the league.So for Sunday’s visit to Cuneo, it was imperative that some kind of team be produced. Pro Piacenza, known as the Rossoneri, or Redblacks, scrambled. It mustered up some teenagers from the youth team, and a team masseur, for a total of eight players. The masseur’s number was hastily added to his uniform with tape. One of the youngsters, Nicola Cirigliano, was appointed the player-manager.Unfortunately one of the players, identified by the Italian press as Isufi, had forgotten his ID card and could not suit up, leaving the team with just seven players, the minimum allowed before an automatic forfeit.The game progressed as you would expect with seven inexperienced players going against 11. Cuneo passed at will, dribbled at will, and more or less scored at will. A highlight video is great viewing if you enjoy discouraged players trudging back to the center circle after yet another goal. Cuneo went into the break up by 16-0.Good news for Pro Piacenza: Isufi’s father retrieved his identifying documents, allowing him to join the game. Bad news for Pro Piacenza: the masseur had to leave the game with a cramp.In the end, Cuneo let up a bit, leading to the 20-0 final score.Hicham Kanis wound up with six goals, Edoardo Defendi had five, and hat tricks by Francesco De Stefano and Michele Emmausso were almost unnoticed.To be clear, although Serie C is a far cry from Juventus, the Milan giants and the high-quality play of Serie A, it is still a fully organized soccer league.Pisa, in the same division as Pro Piacenza, draws an average of 5,000 fans a game. The winner of the division will head up to Serie B, only a level below the likes of Ronaldo, Paulo Dybala and Ciro Immobile.But several teams at this level have struggled financially, among them Cuneo, the winning team Sunday. Matera has missed four matches and been disqualified.The Italian press did not like what it saw.La Gazzetta dello Sport called the match grotesque, “one of the saddest and surreal pages of Italian professional football.”Even a player on the winning side was embarrassed. “I feel only shame for those who made all this possible,” Fabiano Santacroce said.Francesco Ghirelli, the Serie C president, told Radio Rai that a game like that “must never happen again.”And on Monday he made sure it wouldn’t: Lega Pro, the governing body for Serie C, announced on Monday that Pro Piacenza had been kicked out of the league.AdvertisementTimes InsiderTimes photographers like Doug Mills watched the game from the viewfinders of their cameras.David Tyree's catch in Super Bowl XLII was the unforgettable play on the winning drive.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesSupported byBy Jake LucasTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.Doug Mills, a New York Times photographer who usually covers politics in Washington, has lost count of exactly how many of the 53 Super Bowls he’s photographed. But his best guess: Sunday was his 22nd time on the sidelines of the country’s consistently most popular entertainment event on television.As millions of Americans set down buffalo chicken dips and cold beers in front of the TV and crowded into bars to watch the contest between the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LIII, Mr. Mills packed three cameras, four lenses, two extra batteries and extra Ethernet cables, and headed into Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium.The Super Bowl is a special assignment for photographers, up there with the Olympic Games and presidential campaigns — but packed into just a few hours.“Just like the athletes, the photographers have to be on their game,” Mr. Mills said.He was one of three photographers shooting the game and surrounding pageantry for The Times’s sports desk on Sunday. They were joined by five reporters and two photo assistants, plus another photographer shooting photos for the graphics desk. And they filed to four photo editors, six word editors and two graphics editors.Those three sports photographers were poised to take a lot of pictures: Records from The Times’s photo lab show that three people produced just over 16,000 images at the 2017 game. Mr. Mills estimated he’d take 2,000 to 3,000 this year.“All you can do is ask for it to happen in front of you — the big play,” Mr. Mills said.The task for photographers shooting the game is to tell the story of the night, and it promises the chance to capture sports history. Like in 2008 when Mr. Mills photographed David Tyree catching a pass on his helmet during a drive that won the Giants Super Bowl XLII and spoiled the Patriots’ perfect season. Or in 2015, when A.J. Mast, who joined Mr. Mills on his fifth time shooting the game for The Times, photographed the Patriots’ Malcolm Butler intercepting an ill-advised Seahawks pass in the end zone, securing Super Bowl XLIX for New England (“a game-telling picture,” Mr. Mast said).To capture those moments, they said, they absorb themselves in the game, trying to anticipate significant plays based on how the game unfolds.“I call it staying in the viewfinder,” Mr. Mast said.And they must be thorough, getting everything that could be significant from a variety of perspectives. There’s no telling whether a first-quarter touchdown will turn out to be the only touchdown of the game, or whether a referee will end up making a call that alters the game’s course. By the end, they must also have images that reflect how the game was won in between those memorable moments — the workhorse plays that add up to the title.“If Los Angeles is dominating and most of your photos are of Tom Brady passing, that doesn’t make sense,” said Kevin D. Liles, who photographed the game for The Times for the first time.Mr. Liles shot the game from above in the stands, while Mr. Mills and Mr. Mast were on the field in either end zone. They used Ethernet lines that plugged into their cameras to file photos directly to editors in New York. In previous years, The Times had runners take memory cards from photographers on the field to an editor in a photo workroom at the stadium. But last year, many of the photo editors were at the Olympics in South Korea, so The Times used the Ethernet lines for the first time. Mr. Mast said the new workflow allowed the photo team to get a picture from the field onto the home page in a matter of minutes.The team of photographers at the game for The Times is also responsible for capturing the pomp and entertainment around the game. At halftime, Mr. Mills and Mr. Mast knew to look for someone seizing the spotlight to make a political statement (or at least start a viral moment).Bedel Saget, a sports graphics editor for The Times, was also in the stands photographing the game, but with the goal of getting photos fit for an interactive that would break down key plays. He planned to be essentially “sitting on the shutter button,” he said, trying to capture as many frames of the action as possible and filing pictures of those important plays to a Google Drive. “That’s when the real magic happens.”In New York, the graphics editors Joe Ward and Anjali Singhvi pulled a photo from one of those key moments from the cloud and transformed it into a 3-D image using third-party software called Mental Canvas. They then created an interactive out of that 3-D image that allowed readers to examine the play from different perspectives, moving back and forth through those perspectives by scrolling. The interactive includes simple annotations with each perspective to guide the reader’s eye and explain how the play unfolded.When they first debuted this interactive during the 2018 World Cup, they pulled photos from the games days after they were over. But working with a live event like the Super Bowl, Mr. Ward and Ms. Singhvi must wait to jump on the right moment as the action unfolds, which presents a challenge.“We don’t know what we’re going to get,” Ms. Singhvi said.For all the excitement and potential glory of photographing the Super Bowl, Mr. Mills said there is one way it falls short of being a dream job.“It’s a terrible way to watch the game.”Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Field Level MediaKareem Abdul-Jabbar, the Hall of Fame center, has put four N.B.A. championship rings and other memorabilia up for auction.Abdul-Jabbar, 71, wrote on his website this month that “much of the proceeds” would benefit his Skyhook Foundation, a charity that helps children learn about science, technology, engineering and math.The rings up for bid are the ones he won with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1980, ’85, ’87 and ’88. Abdul-Jabbar also won league championships in 1971 with the Milwaukee Bucks and in 1982 with the Lakers. Game-used and autographed items — including All-Star rings and uniforms — from his career are also available at the auction, which runs through Saturday.“When it comes to choosing between storing a championship ring or trophy in a room, or providing kids with an opportunity to change their lives, the choice is pretty simple. Sell it all,” wrote Abdul-Jabbar, who is the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader.“Looking back on what I have done with my life, instead of gazing at the sparkle of jewels or gold plating celebrating something I did a long time ago, I’d rather look into the delighted face of a child holding their first caterpillar and think about what I might be doing for their future.”The auction is being conducted by Goldin Auctions. As of Tuesday afternoon, the bidding on his ring from the 1985 N.B.A. championship was up to $85,000, and the bidding on a signed basketball from his final N.B.A. game in 1989 was up to $75,000.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterA Johns Hopkins doctor says there is a need to develop treatments for survivors.To the Editor:Re “A Year Without Tom Brady” (Editorial Observer, Jan. 19):Alex Kingsbury makes the case that despite the scientific evidence supporting the link between repeated head trauma and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., and a decline in youth football participation, America’s sport shows no signs of slowing down. And yet the conversation continues to lack a real investment in treatment options for athletes living with the condition or who will go on to develop it.While efforts to improve diagnosis and prevent C.T.E. are critical, there is an even more urgent need to develop treatments for survivors to improve cognition, restore behavioral control, stabilize mood and reduce the impulsivity that can lead to acts of violence, rage, addictions and suicide.A better understanding of the molecular changes in the brain that result from repeated concussion will lead to innovative and effective treatments that will help rebuild lives, families and maybe even brains.It’s not enough to simply not tune in to the games; we must do more for the athletes and their families living with this insidious brain disorder.Daniel R. WeinbergerBaltimoreThe writer is director and chief executive of the Lieber Institute for Brain Development and a professor of psychiatry, neurology, neuroscience and genetics at Johns Hopkins University,AdvertisementThe late Hong Kong entrepreneur was honored for his role in China’s reform and opening-up.Henry Fok Ying-tung’s vision, innovative spirit and entrepreneurship started the trend of investment in the Chinese mainland drawn from Hong Kong and overseas. His various projects had a significant impact on economic development in Guangdong province and, by extension, the whole country.In addition to promoting economic reform, Fok devoted strenuous efforts to helping the nation gain membership of a number of international sporting organizations that were important to the rise of modern China.When he died in 2006 at age 83, he was vice-chairman of the 10th National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, the country’s top political advisory body.On Dec. 18, he was awarded the medal of “reform pioneer”, along with other 99 compatriots, at a grand gathering to mark the country’s 40 years of reform and opening-up in Beijing.Born in Hong Kong in 1923, Fok had humble beginnings, having lost his father at a young age. He started secondary education at Queen’s College in the city, but left when Hong Kong fell to Japanese forces in December 1941.In partnership with 12 other businesspeople, his mother opened a grocery store, which Fok soon took over. After World War II, he made money at government auctions of unwanted military supplies. Having studied English, he could easily read the lists of items.He was also involved in the transportation sector. During the Korean War (1950-53), China was placed under an embargo by the British government in Hong Kong by way of a U.N. resolution, but Fok provided ships to transport essential supplies such as medicines and iron sheets to the mainland. It was his first contact with the mainland.The iron sheets were used to make oil storage tanks. At the time, there was a shortage of oil in China, so the tanks were needed to store fuel imported from the Soviet Union, according to Fok’s second son, Ian Fok Chunwan, who assisted his father’s business ventures on the mainland and is now CEO of the Henry Fok Ying Tung Group.“My father had an innovative brain and good insight. He did things people had never done before, and he was humble in seeking other people’s advice,” Ian Fok recalled.“After the liberation of Hong Kong, many people began flooding into the city. As the population surged, there were not enough homes, and that prompted him to invest in the property sector. In the old days, buildings were sold in entire blocks. But, after consulting lawyers, he decided to sell flats (apartments) one by one, even before they were completed, to solve people’s housing needs. That’s the system of pre-completed flats we have today.”Growing influence
After emerging from the “cultural revolution” (1966-76), China launched the landmark reform and opening-up policy in 1978 to bring in foreign investors, modern technology, equipment and management skills.Henry Fok always wanted China to be strong and was keen to assist the country’s development. He seized his opportunity, becoming the first entrepreneur from Hong Kong to invest in the mainland. He decided to build a modern hotel because he realized that if China were to open its doors to foreign investors, the visitors would require comfortable accommodation.Construction of the Zhongshan Hot Spring Resort － the first hotel funded by overseas capital － in Zhongshan, Guangdong, in the west of the Pearl River Delta, began in early 1979.At the time, China was extremely poor. The government could only afford to hire workers and buy raw materials, while Henry Fok was responsible for raising capital, supervising construction work, hotel management and staff training. He also imported a host of equipment, furniture and hotel supplies.Aiming to have the hotel completed within a year, Henry Fok had the idea of handing out bonuses to accelerate construction. As a result, the hotel began operations on the scheduled date.Zhongshan was relatively isolated, so to connect the city with other parts of Guangdong he suggested improving the transportation infrastructure by widening roads and building bridges. However, the provincial government was reluctant to act, fearing future maintenance costs, so he proposed the use of road tolls and bank loans to finance the work.In 1982, Henry Fok spent a further HK$15 million (equal to about $2.6 million at the time) to build a golf course that met international standards near the resort. According to Ian Fok, the golf course was built to raise the hotel’s status and attract a larger number of upmarket visitors.Ian Fok said his father encountered a great deal of resistance and red tape in his endeavors. “Before the resort was completed, many officials and cadres were concerned that it would fail, but Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping was determined and told them, ‘There’s no way back.’ Years later, when the luxury White Swan Hotel opened in Guangzhou, Guangdong, some cadres wept, fearing China was walking the path of capitalism,” he said.In 1978, Henry Fok proposed building the five-star White Swan Hotel on the shore of a lake in Guangzhou, which had become an increasingly important city for both foreign businesspeople and tourists. The hotel was a joint venture between Henry Fok and the provincial tourism administration, and required combined investment of HK$200 million.He insisted that the hotel should be designed by Chinese architects and managed by Chinese employees. However, mainlanders lacked experience of running luxury hotels, so he brought the management team to Hong Kong and let them stay in five-star hotels to see how they were run.It took three years to build the White Swan Hotel, which opened in 1983. The tycoon insisted that local residents and people from outside Guangdong were allowed to enter the Zhongshan Hot Spring Resort and the White Swan Hotel, take photographs and admire the marvelous developments, despite concerns about crowd control.“We managed the White Swan Hotel for 15 years before handing it over to the provincial authorities. My father’s main aim was to contribute to the economic development of Guangdong and the country as a whole, while the money we made was used to repay bank loans and interest,” Ian Fok said.Sports enthusiast
Henry Fok, who was enthusiastic about sports, particularly soccer, strove to bring China back into the international community and promote sports development.Before the People’s Republic of China joined the U.N., Taiwan took part in international sports events under the name “Republic of China”.After the civil war (1945-49) and the Korean War, many countries imposed sanctions on China in an attempt to stop the country joining international organizations. Henry Fok tirelessly lobbied international supporters to break the impasse, but many Chinese sports officials were wary of initiating contacts with organizations overseas.In 1974, Henry Fok invited the president and secretary-general of FIFA － world soccer’s governing body － to visit Beijing. However, no Chinese officials met with the guests, who were entertained by Henry Fok and his eldest son, Timothy.During his time as president of the Hong Kong Football Association from 1970 to 1997, Henry Fok worked to help China join the Asian Football Confederation. The country joined FIFA in 1975. Later, in 1979, he was delighted that his years of lobbying and hard work had paid off when the International Olympic Committee approved the entry of the Chinese Olympic Committee after 30 years in the international wilderness.Badminton is a popular sport in China and it has always been one of the country’s strong suits. However, years ago, the International Badminton Federation was dominated by the United Kingdom, which was anti-China and rebuffed the country’s membership application.In response, 19 Asian and African countries formed a new organization － the World Badminton Federation － in Hong Kong in 1978 and broke away from the IBF.Following negotiations, the two sides signed a merger agreement in May 1981, which allowed China to join the IBF. The organization was later renamed the Badminton World Federation, and Henry Fok was appointed honorary president in recognition of his huge contribution to the sport.Joseph LiAdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikBob Kuechenberg, a six-time Pro Bowl guard in the National Football League, two-time Super Bowl champion and member of the only N.F.L. team to achieve a perfect season, the 1972 Miami Dolphins, died on Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 71.His former wife, Marilyn Nix Kuechenberg, said the cause was a heart attack.Kuechenberg joined the Dolphins as a free agent in 1970, the future Hall of Fame coach Don Shula’s first season, and played for them until 1983. He was part of a daunting offensive line that included guard Larry Little and center Jim Langer, both enshrined in the Hall of Fame.The New York Times sportswriter Red Smith quoted Kuechenberg in 1975 on his strategy for neutralizing defenders, in this case the Chicago Bears tackle Wally Chambers. “I just fight him,” Kuechenberg said. “As long as he’s beating on my head and not the quarterback’s, it’s all right with me.”Kuechenberg (pronounced KOOCH-en-berg) started every game for the 1972 Dolphins, who went 17-0, beating the Washington Redskins, 14-7, in Super Bowl VII at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. He started 16 games during the 1973 season and playoffs when the Dolphins repeated as champions, blowing out the Minnesota Vikings, 24-7, in the Super Bowl at Rice Stadium in Houston.The Dolphins overcame the vaunted Vikings defense, known as the Purple People Eaters, on the ground — the Dolphins’ quarterback, Bob Griese, attempted only seven passes — in no small part because of Kuechenberg’s work up front against Alan Page, the Vikings’ Hall of Fame defensive tackle.In a statement after Kuechenberg’s death, Shula said his performance in Super Bowl VIII “was one of the keys to our victory.”Kuechenberg was tough, even for an N.F.L. offensive lineman. He played with a fractured forearm in the Dolphins’ second Super Bowl victory, completed a game against the Pittsburgh Steelers with a broken ankle and played much of the 1977 season with two fractured bones in his back.An eye injury ended Kuechenberg’s career after the 1983 season, during which he blocked for the rookie quarterback Dan Marino.Kuechenberg played in 196 games with Miami, a team record that was later broken by Marino.“He gave you everything he had every single snap, and that dependability extended throughout his career, missing only a few games during that time,” Shula said.Robert John Kuechenberg was born on Oct. 14, 1947, in Gary, Ind., to Rudy and Marion Kuechenberg. He told The Palm Beach Post in 2005 that his father had been an iron worker, middleweight boxer, rodeo clown and human cannonball.He grew up in Hobart, Ind., and graduated from Hobart High School in 1965 before studying economics and playing football at the University of Notre Dame.Kuechenberg told The Palm Beach Post that his father (“the toughest guy I have ever known”) had motivated him to play through pain.“I’m the only one that I know of who made it in the N.F.L. whose father accused me of being a pussycat for taking the easy way out,” Kuechenberg said, referring to his college education and football career. “He basically said, ‘Either graduate from Notre Dame or get in the cannon.’”“So a broken arm? That’s no big deal.”He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1969 and was chosen by the Philadelphia Eagles in the fourth round of the N.F.L. draft. But he was released by the Eagles and then the Atlanta Falcons in his first season, which he finished with the Chicago Owls of the Continental Football League before joining the Dolphins.He married his high school sweetheart while he was at Notre Dame. They later divorced.After retiring from the N.F.L., Kuechenberg ran fine arts and luxury real estate businesses. He also renovated houses in Florida with Ms. Nix Kuechenberg, whom he married in the early 1970s; one restoration was of a historic multimillion-dollar mansion on Star Island in Miami Beach. That marriage ended in divorce, as did his two subsequent ones.His survivors include two children from his first marriage, Bryan and Eric; two from his second marriage, Nicholas and Alexandra Kuechenberg; one from his third marriage, Brandon; two grandchildren; and six siblings.Kuechenberg was a repeat finalist for the Hall of Fame, in Canton, Ohio, but has not been elected to it.“I’ve coached a lot of Hall of Fame players, including a number of offensive linemen, and Kooch was as good as any of them,” Shula said. “I hope one day he gets that ultimate recognition by being enshrined in Canton. It’s an honor long overdue.”The Associated Press contributed reporting.Follow Daniel E. Slotnik on Twitter: @dslotnikAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySaints 20, Eagles 14By Ken BelsonNEW ORLEANS — New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees shared a curious statistic after his team defeated the defending champion Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday: In the third quarter, with the Eagles ahead by 4 points, the Saints put together a 23-play, 117-yard touchdown drive.Yes, 117, if you include the penalties that forced the Saints to backtrack and regain lost yardage.The long march down the field — which officially was listed as an 18-play, 92-yard drive — paid off when Brees hit wide receiver Michael Thomas for a 2-yard receiving touchdown that put the Saints ahead for good.“That just was the tipping point, it turned the tide of the whole game,” Brees said of the 11-minute-29-second drive. “We knew everything after that was building a lead.”The top-seeded Saints held on to win, 20-14, overcoming a slow start and a bundle of errors in their divisional-round game to set up a rematch against the second-seeded Los Angeles Rams next Sunday here in New Orleans.The game started with the Eagles playing like Super Bowl champions. They scored two quick touchdowns to go up by 14-0 before the first quarter was over, quieting the raucous crowd of 73,027 at the Superdome.But those were the only points the Eagles would score.The Saints clawed back to 4 points behind at halftime, and then in the third quarter, Brees found his rhythm, conducting the epic drive that left the Eagles’ defense, already banged up from injuries, exhausted.Eagles quarterback Nick Foles, who looked like the magical, postseason version of himself on his team’s first two drives, was unable to muster much offense in the second half, struggling to communicate with his teammates amid the noise of the crowd.“We think it’s a tremendous advantage to play here,” Saints Coach Sean Payton said. “It’s one of the reasons you fight for the best seed you can get. There’s an attribution to that noise. It’s all of the communication that strains you — not just on one play, but throughout the game.”Brees faced no such concerns as he continued his dominance in New Orleans, where he remains undefeated in the playoffs. Brees found his favorite receiver, Thomas, early and often; Thomas had 12 receptions for 171 yards — including four catches on the 92-yard third quarter drive.Brees, who this season became the N.F.L.’s career passing leader and set the league record for completion percentage in a season, finished 28 of 38 for 301 yards, with two touchdown passes and one interception.Next up for the Saints are the Rams. The Saints dealt them their first loss of the season at the Superdome with a 45-35 victory in November.At least early in Sunday’s game, the odds of a Saints-Rams rematch looked slim. Brees threw an interception on the Saints’ first play of the game, as he tried to reach Ted Ginn Jr. streaking down the middle of the field. It was only his second interception this season at home.Foles moved the Eagles down the field almost effortlessly on their first two drives to jump out to a 14-0 lead. He found Jordan Matthews for a 37-yard touchdown pass then scored from the 1 on a quarterback sneak for a second touchdown.And he was driving the Eagles back down the field in the second quarter, seemingly on his way to giving Philadelphia a three-score lead. But Foles was intercepted by cornerback Marshon Lattimore to end the threat and, it turned out, swing the game’s momentum.On the ensuing drive, the Saints pulled a rabbit out of a hat with a fake punt. The team’s utility star, quarterback Taysom Hill, lined up behind the center on fourth-and-1 in the Eagles’ half of the field, took the snap and ran 4 yards for a first down.“It’s a gutsy call,” Hill said. “I wasn’t going to be denied.”The Eagles’ woes were quickly compounded. Defensive lineman Fletcher Cox was hurt on the play, and hi s replacement, Treyvon Hester, jumped offside on the next snap, giving Brees a free play. He took advantage, hitting Thomas for a 42-yard pass. Seven plays later, on fourth-and-goal at the 2, Brees threw a touchdown pass to Keith Kirkwood for the Saints’ first points.“We felt we needed 7 there,” Payton said of his decision to go for the end zone instead of a field goal.Though the scoreboard showed the teams just a few points apart for most of the game, the Eagles looked worn down in the second half, unable to mount a serious threat. The Saints, who averaged more than 31 points a game during the regular season, looked as if they were making up for lost time. Brees hit his receivers on the Saints’ end-to-end drive, including on a third-and-16 in which he evaded tacklers and bought himself time before finding ThomasSaints kicker Wil Lutz added a field goal early in the fourth quarter to give the Saints a 6-point lead, but he missed another attempt with just under three minutes to give the Eagles one last chance. Foles moved the Eagles down to the Saints’ 27 just before the two-minute warning, but then a second-down pass went through the hands of Alshon Jeffery and was caught by Lattimore for his second interception of the game.The Saints charged across the field to celebrate, while the crowd, sensing another party next weekend, erupted once again.Brees and the Saints will now have to find a way to slow down an offense as potent as their own, with a trip to the Super Bowl on the line.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunFLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Shortly before he was fired by the Miami Dolphins, Adam Gase requested a favor from one of his former pupils. He knew he would need some help convincing another team to take a chance on him so quickly after a disappointing three years as head coach of the Dolphins. Fortunately, a powerful voice was willing to intercede: Peyton Manning.It has been five years since Manning and Gase first joined forces in Denver, setting records and bringing the Broncos to a Super Bowl at MetLife Stadium. But a phone call last week from Manning to the Jets’ chairman and chief executive, Christopher Johnson, went a long way for Gase, who will find himself back at MetLife in a different capacity this fall.On Monday, at Gase’s introductory news conference as the Jets’ new head coach, Johnson signaled a shift in the organization’s philosophy, which has centered on defense for the past two decades. With Gase, the Jets have finally stepped in line with the league’s curve.“To paraphrase Wayne Gretzky,” Johnson said, “he’s coaching to where football is going.”There was some inherent awkwardness as Gase arrived in front of a packed auditorium filled with team executives, former players, and fans. As coach of the Dolphins, he went 5-1 against the Jets, including two wins this season. And since the deal was announced last week, reports have surfaced indicating that talks had broken down between the Jets and another top candidate, Matt Rhule, over staffing issues, although Johnson denied on Monday that the team intended to dictate any staff hires.But Gase, 40, underscored his reputation for fieriness and an inimitable work ethic by expressing how eager he was to get back to coaching despite only having been out of a job for a little more than a week.“I was home for nine days, and I was good,” Gase joked.He had a pedestrian 23-25 record with Miami, his first head coaching stint, and some players were critical of his style in exit interviews after the season. But the Jets were willing to look at his new situation as a fresh start in several ways.“We have a young team,” General Manager Mike Maccagnan said. “We have a lot of cap space. We have a lot of roster flexibility — we’re not burdened by a lot of big contracts and older players.”These factors, Maccagnan continued, provide “an ability to shift and change a little bit.”He added, “We can change the makeup of our team pretty quickly.”The Jets have more than $100 million cap space, which Gase acknowledged made them an especially intriguing landing spot. He also said he liked the ability to stay in the A.F.C. East and get another crack at dethroning the New England Patriots.But Gase said the primary factor in his decision to sign with the team was Sam Darnold, the 21-year-old quarterback who will be entering his second season after showing plenty of promise as a rookie. Gase took Manning to new heights at the end of his career, and he guided Tim Tebow and Jay Cutler as well (he was a bit less successful developing Ryan Tannehill, his quarterback in Miami, though Tannehill missed the entire 2017 season and some of 2018 as well).But he said he has never worked with a talent like Darnold.“This is the first time I’ve been able to get with a guy this young, this early in his career,” Gase said. “He’s hungry for knowledge, he wants to be coached. And with a player that does have the physical traits, this is an exciting thing for me to go through.”The Jets interviewed Gase early on, but then followed up with a second interview that included Darnold, who chimed in via FaceTime. Johnson had said he would look for a coach that had success grooming young quarterbacks; Gase’s résumé checked out.Though he was hesitant to reveal many details about who he wants to fill his coaching staff, Gase said that he was considering forgoing hiring a quarterback coach, so as not to fill Darnold’s head with too many voices besides that of his offensive coordinator and Gase himself. (Gase also called the plays in Miami.)With Manning, Gase said, it took almost no time to develop a kinship.“When we met each other, it was really, ‘Who’s going to be the first one to break, who will outwork who?’” Gase said. “He appreciates hard work, and who’s going to go nose-to-nose with him and mentally try to challenge each other. That was something I really enjoyed.”The Jets are betting that their matchmaker game between Darnold and Gase produces something similar.“You always want to be forward-looking,” Johnson said. “The game is changing. Adam has shown us that he is part of that change.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College FootballBy Marc TracyThree years ago, after Clemson defeated college football’s signature team, Notre Dame, through a South Carolina downpour, Coach Dabo Swinney coined a kind of motto for his program, describing the attitude that would bring the second school of a smallish Southern state to the sport’s heights.“Tonight it was B.Y.O.G. — bring your own guts,” he said then.Monday night’s 44-16 victory over top-seeded Alabama (14-1), which gave the Tigers their second national championship in three seasons, was not so much about guts but domination. The dominance began on Alabama’s first drive — which ended abruptly when the sophomore cornerback A. J. Terrell intercepted Alabama’s Tua Tagovailoa, the Heisman Trophy runner-up, and took it 44 yards for a touchdown — and basically never stopped.The victory came a little more than a week after Clemson (15-0) ran through Notre Dame in the national semifinals. That wasn’t a B.Y.O.G.-type game. Rather, it was a 30-3 demolition.Yet the roots of these performances lay in an incredibly gutsy decision Swinney made, not amid the playoff’s high drama but during late September’s uncertainty.Clemson is the plucky underdog whose fans drive around with little tiger tails trailing the backs of their trucks. The Tigers stampeded their way through the season and the College Football Playoff with an outrageously gifted freshman quarterback named Trevor Lawrence, plus plenty of brawn and speed exemplified by a veteran defensive line stocked with future N.F.L. players, and a freakishly talented young receiving corps.Lawrence was the game’s obvious star, completing 20 of 32 passes for 347 yards and three touchdowns.“We’re just little ol’ Clemson,” said Swinney, as though self-conscious of both the narrative and how thoroughly his team had just smashed it. He added: “We’re not supposed to be here, but we are. But we are. And beat Notre Dame and Alabama to do it.”Clemson had plenty of guts this season; Swinney just showed them very early on. Much the way Alabama Coach Nick Saban swapped out his tried-and-tested sophomore quarterback, Jalen Hurts, during last season’s national championship for the barely seen freshman Tagovailoa at halftime, Swinney exchanged at quarterback a senior who had started the previous season — and won the Tigers their third straight conference title — for a true freshman.This decision meant everything. Under that earlier quarterback, Kelly Bryant, Clemson was about as badly crushed by Alabama in last year’s national semifinals, 24-6, as Alabama was crushed by Clemson in this year’s final.Bryant is a fine college quarterback, but even Saban acknowledged that Lawrence’s ability to laser the ball dozens of yards up the field was a game-changer.“Trevor Lawrence is very good at throwing the fade ball, back shoulders, whatever it is,” Saban said, adding that Clemson receivers Tee Higgins and Justyn Ross, who combined for 234 yards and two touchdowns on nine catches, “are really, really good at making plays.”Most people watching Monday night’s game had missed Swinney’s momentous decision to go with Lawrence over Bryant, because the decision came not at halftime, but almost four months ago.And it might have been even gutsier than Saban’s masterstroke last year.In late September, Swinney announced that Lawrence, who came out of a prominent Georgia high school program as one of the highest-rated recruits ever, would start against Syracuse in the Tigers’ fifth game of the season, over Bryant, who had started the first four.“All I envisioned was him starting that next week against Syracuse,” Swinney said a few days ago.Swinney knew the timing of his announcement would enable Bryant to transfer under a new N.C.A.A. rule that permits football players to redshirt (essentially get a do-over) during a season in which they appear in as many as four games. If Bryant stopped playing right then and there, he would be able to play one more season — almost certainly elsewhere.The co-offensive coordinator Tony Elliott confirmed after the game that the redshirt rule was part of why Swinney made the announcement when he did, “to give Kelly an opportunity, if he did want to decide he wanted to go somewhere else and play,” Elliott said.It was a menschy move by Swinney. It was also incredibly risky.For one thing, Lawrence was not at that point an obvious improvement over Bryant. Playing limited snaps, sometimes against inferior competition, in those first four games, Lawrence had looked … fine. He accumulated 137 yards and three touchdowns against tiny Furman, and 194 yards, a touchdown and an interception against Georgia Southern.In Clemson’s toughest game in that stretch — a 2-point road victory over Texas A&M — Lawrence threw the ball just nine times, and in the fourth quarter, with the Tigers ahead by 8 points, it was Bryant whom Swinney sent onto the field to hold the lead.More important, if Bryant elected to transfer, then Swinney’s Plan B would transfer with him. The new backup would be Chase Brice, a serviceable but far from standout signal-caller. With Lawrence as the starter, Clemson had no real safety net.It did not matter to Swinney. “My job is to make decisions that put the team in the best possible path to win,” he said Monday night of Lawrence, “and after four games he was the best player.”So Swinney went with Lawrence, and a few days later, Bryant did indeed decide to transfer. He will play his final season at Missouri.“The situation was, I got the opportunity to start that week, and that was really it,” Lawrence recalled Monday night.Lawrence’s success heralds a trend. More true freshmen will start at quarterback for more contenders. Georgia nearly won last year’s title with a true freshman, Jake Fromm, under center.Thanks to early enrollments, true freshmen are not truly freshmen. At this point, Lawrence has been enrolled at Clemson and practicing with the team for 12 months.“We don’t really look at it as being a freshman anymore,” Brice, the backup, said last month. “You see tons of freshmen around the country playing early.”Additionally, college schemes have evolved to resemble high school ones more and more. Quarterbacks benefit from year-round seven-on-seven competitions and private trainers. It all makes the transition to college smoother.“I think you’ll see more and more young quarterbacks be able to contribute early on,” Saban said Monday.When Swinney made the decision to go with Lawrence, more was at stake than simply the 2018 season.Despite the title after the 2016 season, the two championship games and the three consecutive Atlantic Coast Conference titles in a magical three-year run, there seemed something surreal about Clemson in that period. For two seasons, Clemson enjoyed the services of quarterback Deshaun Watson, a two-time Heisman runner-up. Florida State, the traditional power in its division, had been uncharacteristically down.A flameout this season might have made Swinney’s run seem like ol’ Clemson’s quaint interloping upon the College Football Playoff, the rightful preserve of blue bloods like Notre Dame and Ohio State and Oklahoma and Georgia and, of course, Alabama, Swinney’s own alma mater.Instead, on Monday night Lawrence solidified Clemson’s place in that pantheon while becoming the first true freshman quarterback to lead his team through most of the season all the way to the national title since Jamelle Holieway did it for Oklahoma in 1985.Holieway is probably a nice guy and was a terrific athlete, but Oklahoma ran the option, and Holieway was asked to throw the ball 58 times all year (he connected on a little less than half of those attempts). That makes Lawrence’s achievement a pivot point — and it made Swinney’s gambit that much more dangerous, and more gutsy, too.An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of the quarterback who led Oklahoma to a national title in 1985. He is Jamelle Holieway, not Jamie. The article also misstated the score of last year’s semifinal between Alabama and Clemson. Alabama won 24-6, not 34-6.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe admissions scandal involved lies about sports exploits that should have been simple to detect if someone had bothered to look. By Matthew Futterman and Naila-Jean MeyersThe ruse was oddly simple. Since college coaches can often recommend more athletes to the admissions department than a team needs, why not buy a few slots from the coaches and sell them to parents desperate to get their children into the most selective universities?Perhaps the most remarkable thing about William Singer’s scheme was how easily he could have been found out. With a handful of keystrokes, or maybe a phone call, admissions officers could have discovered that applicants were simply posing as athletes. Then it might have been discovered that a purported pole-vaulter had probably never touched a pole, that a long snapper had stopped playing football, that a supposedly fast swimmer wasn’t fast at all. Indeed, the doctored photographs used to support claims of athletic ability are pretty unconvincing. Yet as simple as it would have been to uncover the plot, the scheme lasted at least seven years, according to the federal indictment detailing the fraud led by Singer. Singer pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges on Tuesday, when documents from the case were made public. Among other things, those documents provided information on the applications of the following students:Gamal Abdelaziz, a resident of Las Vegas and a former casino executive, stands accused of bribing Donna Heinel, the University of Southern California associate athletic director, to designate his daughter as a recruit for the U.S.C. basketball team.To make that happen, Abdelaziz’s daughter needed to be portrayed as a standout basketball player. Singer is said to have enlisted an assistant soccer coach at U.S.C. named Laura Janke to create a profile of a girl who starred for a high school team in Asia, garnering such honors as “Asia Pacific Activities Conference All Star Team,” “2016 China Cup Champions,” “Hong Kong Academy team M.V.P.,” and “team captain.”During a phone call in January, according to the documents, Singer told Abdelaziz that the admissions office had asked Heinel why Abdelaziz’s daughter did not end up on the basketball team. According to Singer, Heinel told the admissions official that the daughter had sustained an injury over the summer that would cause her to be out for six to eight months. Plantar fasciitis was the diagnosis, Singer said. Heinel and at least one U.S.C. coach named in the case have been fired. In 2017, Heinel presented the son of a media executive named Elisabeth Kimmel  to U.S.C.’s subcommittee for athletic admissions. The son was supposedly a three-year varsity letter-winner in track and field and one of the top pole-vaulters in California.His application sailed through, gaining approval on Oct. 10, 2017, even though the boy’s high school had no record of his ever taking part in the pole vault. This was apparently familiar territory for Kimmel, who the documents said had used Singer to gain admission to Georgetown for her daughter as a tennis player. Her daughter didn’t play a single match for the Hoyas during her four years at the school. In the case of her son, Kimmel expressed concern that he was supposed to register with the N.C.A.A., and for him to do that, his high school was going to have to send his records. That might be a problem, Kimmel is said to have told Singer, because her son’s guidance counselor knew he was not a pole-vaulter. Eventually Kimmel figured out how to send the paperwork to the N.C.A.A. herself, but another hiccup occurred when Kimmel’s son appeared on campus: His adviser asked him about his athletic exploits. The boy — who was not in on the scheme, according to his mother — told the adviser that he had no idea what she was talking about and that there had to have been some mistake. According to Kimmel, the adviser said she was going to check into it. As of January, according to court filings, Kimmel’s son was “still in the dark” about the way he had gained admission. The University of Texas has an excellent men’s tennis team, routinely ranked among the top 20 in the country. In 2015, Singer said, he approached the team’s head coach, Michael Center, about a potential student from Los Altos Hills, Calif., an affluent suburb in Silicon Valley. Could Center facilitate admission for the boy as a tennis recruit? The boy’s application listed him as a manager of his high school basketball and football teams. The only tennis mentioned in his application was one year of playing as a high school freshman. Regardless, Center secured the boy a scholarship that covered the cost of books. The boy arrived at Texas for the 2015-16 school year and renounced his scholarship and his participation on the tennis team on Sept. 4, 2015. The university announced on Wednesday that Center had been fired.Marci Palatella, the chief executive of a liquor distribution company in Burlingame, Calif., was looking for a way to get her son into U.S.C., and Singer suggested athletics. That might be a problem, Palatella is said to have replied, because her son had stopped playing football. Nevertheless, the court documents said, a profile was created for Palatella’s son portraying him as an active player on his high school football team — as part of the defensive line and as a long snapper and also as a member of several local and statewide championship teams from 2015 to 2017. Later, Singer would be heard on tape bragging about such a scheme to another client, William E. McGlashan Jr., a senior executive at a global private equity firm.“Well I had a boy last year, I made him a long snapper,” Singer said.“I love it,” McGlashan replied. “He was 145 pounds. Long snapper,” Singer said.“I love it. I love it,” McGlashan said. “That is so funny.”For McGlashan, Singer opted for a different strategy, since the long snapper ruse had just been used. McGlashan’s son played lacrosse, but U.S.C. did not have a lacrosse team. So the boy was described as a kicker, even though his high school had no football team. No problem, Singer explained, “because they have all these kicking camps, and these kickers always get picked up outside of the school.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the man whose daughter was admitted to U.S.C. as a basketball recruit. He is Gamal Abdelaziz, not Adbelaziz.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPatriots 41, Chargers 28By Bill PenningtonFOXBOROUGH, Mass. — The essence of the New England Patriots’ reign as this century’s most successful N.F.L. team has been their peculiar capacity to feel smug and belittled at the same time.It is a paradox the Patriots have put to good use at pivotal times on the way to five Super Bowl victories, winning some games because of unbridled confidence and others because they believed they were being unfairly disparaged.Sunday’s 41-28 thrashing of the Los Angeles Chargers in an A.F.C. divisional round playoff game — the Patriots led by 28 points at halftime — was conspicuously in the latter category. After an uneven season in which New England stumbled through the final quarter of its schedule and many in the N.F.L. community prepared an obituary for this dynasty, the Patriots had built up a fair amount of righteous indignation.The result Sunday was a furious ambushing of the visiting Chargers, a talented team largely relegated to being bystanders as New England scored 28 unanswered points before halftime to put the game virtually out of reach. Proof of the Patriots’ mind-set for the afternoon came minutes after the final whistle when quarterback Tom Brady stared into a television camera during an on-field interview.“I know everyone thinks we suck and can’t win any games,” he said. “So we’ll see.”Asked to elaborate on his comments later, Brady grinned, paused and added: “I just like winning.”But he also had begun to brace for another week of feeling disrespected; the Patriots will travel to Kansas City to face the top-seeded, high-scoring Chiefs in the A.F.C. championship game next weekend.And they will be a pronounced underdog.“Yeah,” Brady said. “We’ll look forward to that.”Indeed, they will. It is a rarity for a team competing in its eighth consecutive A.F.C. conference championship game to know it will be spending the week fending off scores of questions about the offensive might and superior skill set of the opposition.But these Patriots, always assured yet still vulnerable, said they are used to it. Said tight end Rob Gronkowski: “We’ve been hearing that kind of stuff for years now. We laugh at it and keep moving forward.”However the Patriots-Chiefs matchup is ultimately perceived and analyzed in the coming week, New England undoubtedly fired an eye-catching warning shot across the bow of the remaining N.F.L. teams chasing a Super Bowl victory.The first indication that the Patriots meant business Sunday came at the pregame coin toss. Coach Bill Belichick rarely elects to receive the opening kickoff when his team wins the toss. This time, he did.At that moment, the Chargers, despite all their success this season, should have known they were in trouble.With surgeon-like precision, Brady completed 23 of his first 29 passes as the Patriots scored touchdowns on each of their first four possessions. After one punt, they scored another touchdown.While Sunday’s victory was the Patriots’ ninth successive postseason win at Gillette Stadium, their utter dominance of the Chargers was still somewhat surprising. Los Angeles’s offense and defense each ranked in the N.F.L’s top 10; just a week ago, the Chargers thoroughly manhandled a stout Baltimore Ravens team in the wild-card round.But from the beginning Sunday it was clear the Chargers were not playing Baltimore’s one-dimensional offense or its rookie quarterback, Lamar Jackson.It was also clear that Brady, who appeared to be slowed by a gimpy knee in the last quarter of the regular season, was more rested and that New England offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels had devised an effective, multifaceted game plan to deal with the six- or seven-defensive-back zone defense the Chargers had used against the Ravens.Brady, who completed 34 of 44 passes on Sunday for 343 yards, threw only short passes to his wide receivers and running backs to start the game in a fast-paced attack that had the Chargers reeling. The Patriots’ 14-play opening drive concluded when running back Sony Michel rumbled into the end zone for a 1-yard touchdown. It was the first of three first-half touchdowns for Michel, who rushed for 129 yards.One of Brady’s main targets through the air was Julian Edelman, who had nine receptions for a team-high 151 yards.The Chargers tied the game in the first quarter on a 43-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Philip Rivers to Keenan Allen. But it proved to be the high-water mark for Los Angeles, which rallied for three largely meaningless touchdowns in the second half.Rivers has never beaten Brady in eight tries during his career and defeated the Patriots only once when Brady was injured. Rivers is also now 0-3 against New England in the postseason, including a defeat in the A.F.C. championship game in 2008.“It was an emotional week — just being back here after 11 years,” said Rivers, who completed 25 of 51 passes for 331 yards. “It’s tough. It takes a long time to get back to the same spot. So it’s certainly a disappointing finish.”As for the Patriots, the vibe in their locker room after the game was, not surprisingly, a little swagger and a little defiance.The veteran wide receiver Matthew Slater made a sarcastic joke about how the Patriots were “aging.” Asked what he really meant by the remark, Slater smiled and answered: “That we’ve still got a little left in the tank.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEncountersThe former child actor stars in the new season of “Future Man.”By Alexis Soloski“The comeback starts now,” said Haley Joel Osment, as he leaned across the pool table and lined up his shot for a middle pocket. He missed. Wildly. “It’s a subtle comeback.”On a recent Monday, Mr. Osment was in New York to promote the new season of “Future Man,” a science fiction comedy on Hulu, and to audition for some new roles. He had met up with his college friend Nicole Pursell, an actress, at one of their undergrad haunts: Fat Cat, a scruffy, subterranean jazz bar and billiards hall in Greenwich Village that smells like spilled beer.Mr. Osment’s freshman year dorm at New York University was around the corner, and he used to come here weekly, playing pool if a table was open and Ping-Pong if it wasn’t. Shuffleboard, too. He liked to come really late at night. “You could see people sleeping against the walls,” he said nostalgically.Mr. Osment, 30, was a go-to child actor of the late 1990s and early ’00s, four-feet-plus of wounded innocence topped with meltwater blue eyes. See: M. Night Shyamalan’s “The Sixth Sense” and Steven Spielberg’s “A.I.”But when he turned 18, he traded Hollywood for college, enrolling at the Tisch School of the Arts at N.Y.U., where he studied at the Experimental Theater Wing. He learned capoeira and modern dance, and had a teacher tell him he was pretending to walk through blood all wrong. People thought he had disappeared.“The irony is, all I was doing was acting — all day, every day,” Mr. Osment said. “Just nobody could see it.”He and Ms. Pursell were scene partners in the first year, working through “Death and the Maiden,” a play by Ariel Dorfman that involves a hostage situation. Their teacher provided a very realistic prop gun.“It was a good start, you holding that gun to my head,” Mr. Osment said.“It was like the perfect way in,” Ms. Pursell said. “Then we were friends.”Mr. Osment graduated in 2011 and has been working steadily since, with an arc on the Amazon comedy “Alpha House” and a three-episode run as a flip-flops-wearing angel investor on “Silicon Valley.”He now has a recurring role on “Future Man,” as Stu Camillo, a post-apocalypse “toxic nice guy,” as Mr. Osment describes him, who just might destroy all of humanity. He has also filmed roles in Edward James Olmos’s pollution thriller, “The Devil Has a Name,” and the Ted Bundy biopic “Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile.”So Mr. Osment doesn’t really need a comeback, except when it comes to pool.He and his college friends are big into games: bar games, board games, trivia. He and Ms. Pursell are in two fantasy football leagues together. (They would not divulge their team names; according to Ms. Pursell, they may be “unpublishable.”)In the years since college, Ms. Pursell joined a billiards league and Mr. Osment did not. She even arrived with her own pool cue and her own baby powder. “Otherwise my hands get too sticky,” she said.“I just hope this is educational,” said Mr. Osment, who wore a blazer and a tidy beard­.After a quick catch-up, Mr. Osment racked the balls and broke with something less than perfect confidence. Ms. Pursell chose solids and started clearing the table efficiently, while Mr. Osment struggled to sink a single ball. “Oh my goodness, who could have seen that coming?” Mr. Osment said with a deadpan.She sent her 8 ball into the wrong pocket, though, so Mr. Osment ended up winning the first game.In the second game, his break did not improve (“so weak,” he muttered), but Ms. Pursell explained that as long as four balls touched the sides, the break was in play. He seemed pleasantly surprised when a striped ball went in. Ms. Pursell applauded. “Thank you,” he said. “I need all the encouragement I can get.”It wasn’t enough. Mr. Osment missed his next shot and Ms. Pursell methodically picked off the solids, though she soon ran into a snag. So many of his stripes were crowded around a corner pocket that she couldn’t sink her last ball. “Ah, the strategy of losing by so much, you can’t get to your balls,” he told Ms. Pursell.It took a little while longer, but she eventually made her shot before focusing on the 8 ball. This time, she won.A tiebreaker was in order. “Let me rack,” Ms. Pursell said, before offering Mr. Osment some tips. She showed him how to pull the cue back, using the elbow as a fulcrum. “Do the robot.”It worked. Mr. Osment did the robot and he sank one ball. Then another and another and another. The comeback was here! One more ball and the game could have been his.Alas, he missed and Ms. Pursell wasted no time in sinking her last two balls and then the 8 ball.To celebrate her victory, Mr. Osment bought a round of drinks (a Sixpoint for him, a Narragansett for her) and found a quiet table back behind the bar, where they could sit and reminisce about college.“It really was like the best time of my life,” Mr. Osment said. “I had very rarely worked with people my own age, if at all, so to be only around people who were exactly my age was fantastic.”AdvertisementGiven the actor’s long history in show business and political causes, it is all the more baffling to friends that he would risk so much.Jussie Smollett lives above and just to the north of where he claimed he was attacked at North New Street and East North Water Street.CreditCreditSupported byBy Jack Healy, Michael Cooper and Serge F. KovaleskiPhotographs by Alyssa SchukarCHICAGO — Ever since he was a child actor growing up in a show-business family, Jussie Smollett’s life blended activism with the make-believe worlds of television and movies.As he got his early breaks in a television mini-series and Disney’s 1992 hockey comedy “The Mighty Ducks,” and did press junkets for a short-lived ABC sitcom starring him and his five siblings, Mr. Smollett was also steeped in causes like AIDS activism and ending apartheid. He spoke of his mother’s closeness with the Black Panthers and prominent civil-rights leaders, and how she had encouraged Mr. Smollett and his brothers and sisters to create art and live out their beliefs.But now, fantasy and politics have collided in a way that has upended everything Mr. Smollett worked for. He is facing prison time and widespread public scorn over accusations that he concocted and carried out a false attack with racist and anti-gay details, capitalizing on broader anxieties about hate crimes under President Trump.Given his long history in show business, it is all the more baffling to friends and associates that Mr. Smollett, who is black and openly gay, would risk so much on a story that seems to have crumbled under intense scrutiny by police investigators.The Chicago police say that Mr. Smollett had been upset over his salary and wanted to stir up publicity when he filed a police report saying that two masked men had beaten him and thrown a noose around his neck as he walked home at 2 a.m. on Jan. 29, in the wealthy Streeterville neighborhood of downtown Chicago.According to police and court records, Mr. Smollett staged the attack as if he were a director putting on his first play. He paid two brothers who had worked on “Empire” $3,500, asked them to buy ski masks and a noose to use as props and told them which epithets to hurl when they attacked him. The police say Mr. Smollett even scoped out neighborhood security cameras to ensure the assault would be recorded.Mr. Smollett’s lawyers say he is innocent, but his career now hangs in doubt after “Empire” executive producers wrote him off the season’s final two episodes, and his tale of hatred and racism has instead become a cultural brawl over deception and “fake news.”The Hollywood friends who rallied behind Mr. Smollett the loudest are now struggling with where to place their allegiance — with their outspoken friend Jussie, or with the Chicago Police Department, an agency long criticized for its treatment of black people. In this case, though, the police laid out an unusually expansive and detailed timeline that appears to undermine Mr. Smollett’s claims.“I stand with Jussie, under the principle that he is family to me, and he’s always stood for me,” said Ralph Harris, who starred with Mr. Smollett and Mr. Smollett’s five siblings on a short-lived 1994 ABC sitcom, “On Our Own,” about orphaned children trying to stay together by outwitting the authorities.“But I’m a realist, and I respect law, and I respect what I’ve been seeing and hearing as well of the investigation — although Chicago does have its reputation,” Mr. Harris added. “But what I say in that case is if this is something that he’s responsible for, I stand by him — because then we need to get him help.”Conservatives who had publicly doubted the story from the start seized on the criminal charges against Mr. Smollett as evidence that the news media and liberals would credulously run with any narrative that tarnished Mr. Trump and his supporters.Democratic politicians and liberal supporters of Mr. Smollett who had called the assault a modern-day lynching and an example of the rise in hate crimes since Mr. Trump’s election are now grappling with feelings of shock, anger, confusion and shame. Activists worry that victims of hate crimes will now face greater skepticism, or might not report future crimes at all.“Jussie Smollett understood this moment, and understood the heightened sensitivity to hate, to racism, to homophobia, and sought to manipulate it to his own benefit,” said David Axelrod, who covered Chicago politics as a journalist long before becoming a top adviser to President Barack Obama.For Mr. Smollett, arts and activism were intertwined throughout his childhood.His parents met while campaigning for civil rights in the Bay Area of California, and his mother had worked with the founders of the Black Panthers and prominent civil-rights leaders, according to a New York Times interview with Mr. Smollett in 2016. Between child-acting gigs and press junkets that the six siblings did for their 1994 ABC sitcom, their mother, Janet Smollett, made sure the children played sports and read about figures like Malcolm X and Langston Hughes, she told The Los Angeles Times in 1994. (His family did not respond to phone or email messages.)“I know their mother, Janet, has always taught them to stand up for themselves, and for what they believe,” Mr. Harris said. “They seemed like they were beyond their years.”Mr. Smollett embraced social movements. He worked for Artists for a New South Africa. He served on the board of directors of the Black AIDS Institute, and grew outspoken as Black Lives Matter took shape. In 2017, Mr. Smollett released a politically charged single, “F.U.W.,” a sort of resistance anthem with a black-and-white video taking aim at the Trump administration and white male privilege.His breakout role was Jamal Lyon, a talented member of the “Empire” hip-hop dynasty who struggles to get his family to accept that he is gay.When Mr. Smollett learned that the show’s creator Lee Daniels was casting the role, he sent a direct message to Mr. Daniels saying that he sang, acted, danced and wrote music, Mr. Smollett told Entertainment Weekly. Mr. Smollett said he had promised Mr. Daniels that “I am Jamal Lyon in more ways than one.” He got an audition, and he got the part.Mr. Smollett reportedly earned between $65,000 and $100,000 per episode, and had not previously raised objections about his salary to Fox, which broadcasts the show, people familiar with the show have told The Times.But the Chicago police superintendent, Eddie T. Johnson, said that Mr. Smollett had been dissatisfied with the money he was making and decided to do something about it.On Jan. 25, Mr. Smollett sent a text message to a friend, Abimbola Osundairo, who had worked as a stand-in for the love interest of Mr. Smollett’s “Empire” character. Mr. Smollett had befriended and worked out with Mr. Osundairo, a bodybuilder and former college football player, and that morning, Mr. Smollett had a mission in mind, according to court documents.“Might need your help on the low,” he texted. “You around to meet up and talk face to face?”As the two men drove around Chicago together, Mr. Smollett said he was dissatisfied with how the “Empire” studio had responded to a threatening letter he said he had received on Jan. 22 at the Chicago facility where the show films. The letter was laced with a powder — determined to be crushed ibuprofen — and said “Smollett Jussie you will die black,” followed by an anti-gay slur, according to prosecutors. It has been turned over to the F.B.I.Superintendent Johnson later said at a news conference that Mr. Smollett had actually sent the letter to himself as a way to get attention.According to prosecutors, Mr. Smollett told Mr. Osundairo that he wanted to stage an attack on himself and cast him and his older brother, Olabinjo, who had been an extra on “Empire.” The brothers are of Nigerian descent, but were born in the United States.The Osundairos — who go by Abel and Ola — were struggling financially on the outer edges of show business. They had each declared bankruptcy in September 2016 and had been weighed down by credit-card debt and student loans.The brothers lived together in a small apartment on a busy boulevard on Chicago’s North Side, and had been trying to develop business ventures that married physical fitness, entertainment and their religious faith. John King Johnson, a friend, described them as “inseparable.”“They have always had an acting dream and it seems like it has grown over the years,” said Devin Allen, another friend who played college football with the brothers at Quincy University in southwestern Illinois. Referring to Olabinjo, whom he was closer to, he said: “Nobody is perfect. Nobody has a spotless past. He was temporarily overcome at the time with whatever he was tempted with, like money.”After Mr. Smollett reported the attack, investigators painstakingly used security-camera footage and records from taxi cabs and a rideshare to identify the brothers and track their movements that freezing cold night. They were detained and questioned by the police, but have not been charged and are acting as cooperating witnesses in the case.Across Chicago, the whipsawing anger was still raw for observers who watched Mr. Smollett walk silently out of court this week and disappear into a dark-windowed SUV.“I’m disgusted,” said Ja’Mal Green, a community organizer on Chicago’s South Side, who offered prayers of support for Mr. Smollett on the day that news of the attack broke. “Those of us who wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt, who wanted to listen and support him, it pushes us up against the wall.”Jack Healy and Serge F. Kovaleski reported from Chicago, and Michael Cooper from New York. Reporting was contributed by Monica Davey and Julie Bosman from Chicago and Sopan Deb and John Koblin from New York. Susan Beachy contributed research.Jack Healy is a Colorado-based national correspondent who focuses on rural places and life outside America's “City Limits” signs. He has worked in Iraq and Afghanistan and is a graduate of the University of Missouri’s journalism school.  @jackhealynyt • Facebook Michael Cooper covers classical music and dance. He was previously a national correspondent; a political reporter covering presidential campaigns; and a metro reporter covering the police, City Hall and Albany.  @coopnytimes • Facebook Serge Kovaleski is an investigative reporter on the National Desk. He joined The Times in 2006, and was part of the team awarded the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News for the coverage of the Eliot Spitzer prostitution scandal.
   @sergenyt    @sergenyt AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergIn “Under the Eiffel Tower,” Stuart (Matt Walsh), an American bourbon expert fired for a “lack of passion,” likens his existence to the lives of quiet desperation described by Thoreau. “Desperation” seems too mild. When a friend (David Wain) invites Stuart to come along with him, his wife (Michaela Watkins) and their daughter (Dylan Gelula) on a French vacation, the trip has barely started before Stuart proposes marriage to the daughter — who is maybe half his age — at the base of the Eiffel Tower. And that’s before the title card.Rebounding from this mortifyingly dumb opening proves less difficult for Stuart than for the movie, directed by Archie Borders. The film is yet another ode to the restorative magic of wine country sunshine, which apparently also has the power to expose the story’s egregious midlife-crisis clichés.If you thought the men in “Sideways” were too schlubby, too pathetic, and the women too inexplicably accommodating, “Under the Eiffel Tower” is here to say, “Hold my Bordeaux.”Stuart quickly falls in with a rakish Scottish football player (Reid Scott) who teaches him to live for the moment; they end up disembarking from a train with a sophisticated vintner (Judith Godrèche) who awakens Stuart’s sense of chivalry. Godrèche, one of the producers, has perhaps masked her own quiet desperation trying to add depth to such a thankless role.There is some mildly amusing business involving the fate of the engagement ring, and Watkins turns up periodically to make withering remarks, serving as a de facto surrogate for the audience.Movie data powered by IMDb.comNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEncountersThe former child actor stars in the new season of “Future Man.”By Alexis Soloski“The comeback starts now,” said Haley Joel Osment, as he leaned across the pool table and lined up his shot for a middle pocket. He missed. Wildly. “It’s a subtle comeback.”On a recent Monday, Mr. Osment was in New York to promote the new season of “Future Man,” a science fiction comedy on Hulu, and to audition for some new roles. He had met up with his college friend Nicole Pursell, an actress, at one of their undergrad haunts: Fat Cat, a scruffy, subterranean jazz bar and billiards hall in Greenwich Village that smells like spilled beer.Mr. Osment’s freshman year dorm at New York University was around the corner, and he used to come here weekly, playing pool if a table was open and Ping-Pong if it wasn’t. Shuffleboard, too. He liked to come really late at night. “You could see people sleeping against the walls,” he said nostalgically.Mr. Osment, 30, was a go-to child actor of the late 1990s and early ’00s, four-feet-plus of wounded innocence topped with meltwater blue eyes. See: M. Night Shyamalan’s “The Sixth Sense” and Steven Spielberg’s “A.I.”But when he turned 18, he traded Hollywood for college, enrolling at the Tisch School of the Arts at N.Y.U., where he studied at the Experimental Theater Wing. He learned capoeira and modern dance, and had a teacher tell him he was pretending to walk through blood all wrong. People thought he had disappeared.“The irony is, all I was doing was acting — all day, every day,” Mr. Osment said. “Just nobody could see it.”He and Ms. Pursell were scene partners in the first year, working through “Death and the Maiden,” a play by Ariel Dorfman that involves a hostage situation. Their teacher provided a very realistic prop gun.“It was a good start, you holding that gun to my head,” Mr. Osment said.“It was like the perfect way in,” Ms. Pursell said. “Then we were friends.”Mr. Osment graduated in 2011 and has been working steadily since, with an arc on the Amazon comedy “Alpha House” and a three-episode run as a flip-flops-wearing angel investor on “Silicon Valley.”He now has a recurring role on “Future Man,” as Stu Camillo, a post-apocalypse “toxic nice guy,” as Mr. Osment describes him, who just might destroy all of humanity. He has also filmed roles in Edward James Olmos’s pollution thriller, “The Devil Has a Name,” and the Ted Bundy biopic “Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile.”So Mr. Osment doesn’t really need a comeback, except when it comes to pool.He and his college friends are big into games: bar games, board games, trivia. He and Ms. Pursell are in two fantasy football leagues together. (They would not divulge their team names; according to Ms. Pursell, they may be “unpublishable.”)In the years since college, Ms. Pursell joined a billiards league and Mr. Osment did not. She even arrived with her own pool cue and her own baby powder. “Otherwise my hands get too sticky,” she said.“I just hope this is educational,” said Mr. Osment, who wore a blazer and a tidy beard­.After a quick catch-up, Mr. Osment racked the balls and broke with something less than perfect confidence. Ms. Pursell chose solids and started clearing the table efficiently, while Mr. Osment struggled to sink a single ball. “Oh my goodness, who could have seen that coming?” Mr. Osment said with a deadpan.She sent her 8 ball into the wrong pocket, though, so Mr. Osment ended up winning the first game.In the second game, his break did not improve (“so weak,” he muttered), but Ms. Pursell explained that as long as four balls touched the sides, the break was in play. He seemed pleasantly surprised when a striped ball went in. Ms. Pursell applauded. “Thank you,” he said. “I need all the encouragement I can get.”It wasn’t enough. Mr. Osment missed his next shot and Ms. Pursell methodically picked off the solids, though she soon ran into a snag. So many of his stripes were crowded around a corner pocket that she couldn’t sink her last ball. “Ah, the strategy of losing by so much, you can’t get to your balls,” he told Ms. Pursell.It took a little while longer, but she eventually made her shot before focusing on the 8 ball. This time, she won.A tiebreaker was in order. “Let me rack,” Ms. Pursell said, before offering Mr. Osment some tips. She showed him how to pull the cue back, using the elbow as a fulcrum. “Do the robot.”It worked. Mr. Osment did the robot and he sank one ball. Then another and another and another. The comeback was here! One more ball and the game could have been his.Alas, he missed and Ms. Pursell wasted no time in sinking her last two balls and then the 8 ball.To celebrate her victory, Mr. Osment bought a round of drinks (a Sixpoint for him, a Narragansett for her) and found a quiet table back behind the bar, where they could sit and reminisce about college.“It really was like the best time of my life,” Mr. Osment said. “I had very rarely worked with people my own age, if at all, so to be only around people who were exactly my age was fantastic.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Danny Hakim[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The New York attorney general’s office late on Monday issued subpoenas to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank for records relating to the financing of four major Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League in 2014, according to a person briefed on the subpoenas.The inquiry opens a new front in the scrutiny of Deutsche Bank, one of the few lenders willing to do business with Donald J. Trump in recent years. The bank is already the subject of two congressional investigations and was examined last year by New York banking regulators, who took no action.The new inquiry, by the office of the attorney general, Letitia James, was prompted by the congressional testimony last month of Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, the person briefed on the subpoenas said. Mr. Cohen testified under oath that Mr. Trump had inflated his assets in financial statements, and Mr. Cohen provided copies of statements he said had been submitted to Deutsche Bank.The inquiry by Ms. James’s office is a civil investigation, not a criminal one, although its focus and scope were unclear. The attorney general has broad authority under state law to investigate fraud and can fine — or in extreme cases, go to court to try to dissolve — a business that is found to have engaged in repeated illegality.The request to Deutsche Bank sought loan applications, mortgages, lines of credit and other financing transactions in connection with the Trump International Hotel in Washington; the Trump National Doral outside Miami; and the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, the person said.Investigators also requested records connected to an unsuccessful effort to buy the Bills, the person said. Mr. Trump gave Deutsche Bank bare-bones personal financial statements in 2014 when he planned to make a bid for the team, The New York Times has reported. The deal fell through when the team was sold to a rival bidder for $1.4 billion.Mr. Trump worked with a small United States-based unit of Deutsche Bank that serves ultra-wealthy people. The unit lent Mr. Trump more than $100 million in 2012 to pay for the Doral golf resort and $170 million in 2015 to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel.New Jersey-based Investors Bank was subpoenaed for records relating to Trump Park Avenue, a project it had backed.A spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank said on Tuesday that it had received the subpoena.Investors Bank declined to comment. The Trump Organization did not respond to requests for comment.The subpoenas are a culmination of months of threats from Ms. James that she would aggressively investigate Mr. Trump. In August, referring to the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian interference in the 2016 election, she said “the president of the United States has to worry about three things: Mueller, Cohen, and Tish James.”In her victory speech on the night she was elected in November, she said, “I will be shining a bright light into every dark corner of his real estate dealings, and every dealing, demanding truthfulness at every turn.” The next month, before taking office, she told NBC that “we will use every area of the law to investigate President Trump and his business transactions and that of his family.”Mr. Trump has a rich recent history of grievances against the New York attorney general’s office. Before former Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman resigned amid allegations of assault and abuse against women, he pursued cases against the Trump Foundation and Trump University. Mr. Trump has referred to him as “sleazebag AG Eric Schneiderman” and “Shady Eric.” He also assailed Mr. Schneiderman’s temporary successor, Barbara D. Underwood, and has referred to Ms. James as “yet another AG” who “openly campaigned on a GET TRUMP agenda.”“Will never be treated fairly by these people — a total double standard of ‘justice,’” he added on Twitter.In Congress, the House Intelligence Committee has been exploring real estate transactions related to Russia and other foreign interests, including Deutsche Bank loans to the Trump Organization.Follow William Rashbaum on Twitter at @WRashbaum; follow Danny Hakim on Twitter at @dannyhakim.Jesse Drucker contributed reporting.OpinionJed Handelsman ShugermanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFor decades, women’s uniforms were just derivations of men’s. Now, taking specific design cues, like ponytail-friendly necklines, comes the good stuff. By Vanessa FriedmanThe United States women’s soccer team has been fighting for gender parity not just in the courts — suing the United States Soccer Federation last week for discrimination — but also in their uniforms, known as kits. And at least when it comes to the clothes and the Women’s World Cup, they have won.On Monday, at a global event in Paris, Nike revealed the new home and away uniforms for 14 out of 24 competing teams, and for the first time since the brand began working with the WWC tournament in 1995, each one of them was made specifically for the women’s teams, not as derivations or extensions of kits made for men. Three days before, to coincide with International Women’s Day, Adidas released its new designs for four WWC teams.In the larger picture of gender issues and sports, this may not seem like a big deal. But the clothes athletes wear speak loudly about identity and allegiance, and have the power to help instill confidence. Clothes are also the easiest way for fans to assert their own allegiance, aspiration and personal connection. They are, above all, symbols. And now they are finally symbols of parity.“We are shifting more resources to women,” said Amy Montagne, the vice president for global categories at Nike — and not just because this is the largest number of teams the company has worked with. (It outfitted 11 clubs for the 2015 Women’s World Cup.) But because, Mark Parker, the chief executive, said, “We believe this summer can be another turning point for the growth of women’s football.”Certainly, given Nike’s current emphasis on women’s sports — the Dream Crazier campaign, a series of new initiatives designed to support women’s coaching and engage more girls — as well as its own experience with Serena Williams and the current focus on female dress in the competitive arena, it would have been fairly hypocritical for the company to treat its women’s soccer kit as in any way secondary to men’s. (Especially given Nike’s own somewhat uncomfortable internal history with gender issues.)Yet it wasn’t until 2015 that Nike began making women’s soccer jerseys in men’s sizes so that more male fans could buy them. And it wasn’t until the players really spoke up that things began to change.“Three years ago they said, ‘We want our own thing,’” Cassie Looker, the senior apparel product manager for global football, said in a call from France. “Their own thing” refers to both fit and to the design of the uniforms, which Nike refers to as the “storytelling.”According to Ms. Looker, the fit took three years and multiple four-dimensional body mapping sessions of professional athletes to adjust. “They are shaped differently than the standard body type,” she said. “They generate most of their power from their lower body.”While male soccer players like a slimmer fit — “It makes them feel more powerful, like superheroes,” Ms. Looker said — women are more interested in comfort and “looking professional.” This meant a lot of focus on the length of the sleeve (the athletes did not want to expose too much of their upper arms) and the neckline, which ended up halfway between a V-neck and a crew neck, with enough give to be easily pulled over a ponytail. “They want zero distractions,” she said.Most of this may be lost on the armchair soccer fan, though the storytelling implicit in the design will not. (In any case, the kits are available in two fits: athlete and “stadium,” or looser, for the weekend fan.) Though the kits rely on the color palettes of national flags, the difference is often in the pixelated details. “Chile, France, U.S.A. — they are all red, white and blue,” Ms. Looker said, which can make them hard to distinguish. “We bring it up all the time internally.”What to expect? The United States jerseys have a throwback patriotism with (in the home kit) direct references to the jerseys worn by the 1999 team that transformed the profile of women’s soccer in America: white, with red and blue stripes on the sleeves. The names of the 50 states are printed in gray on the back, and three stars over the crest nod to the three championships the United States has won. The away kit has tonal abstractions of stars and stripes on red (though they read a little blotchy from afar).Also tonal are the roses and assorted other florals on the four burgundy-red quadrants of the England jerseys, which is why France’s hexagonal blue polka dots on white stand out, as does the Norwegian snowflake pattern that fades from red to blue, giving their home jersey an Empire-waist effect and uniting the shorts and top.By athlete request Chile, Nigeria, South Africa and Korea have the same pattern that the men’s teams wore in the 2018 World Cup, though the fit has been customized for the women. (At least in Nigeria’s case, the look was so successful that you can kind of understand why they didn’t want to mess with a good thing.)And then there’s Australia. Of all 14 Nike team looks, this will likely be the most controversial; a canvas of forest green, mustardy gold and white slashes and splotches that looks sort of like animal print meets modern art landscape painting. Together with the Sweden kit, by Adidas, which features the faces of female role models chosen by the players embedded in the numbers on the back of each jersey, it makes a statement that, on the pitch or the street, will be impossible to miss. Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.  @VVFriedman AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshWhen a white newspaper editor in Alabama drew widespread condemnation for an editorial that called for the Ku Klux Klan to ride again, only to be replaced by a black woman who hoped to take the newspaper in a new direction, it seemed like a symbolic moment.The new editor and publisher, Elecia R. Dexter, said she wanted to make the newspaper, The Democrat-Reporter, more reflective of the community it serves in Linden, a small town in western Alabama that is about 59 percent white and 41 percent black.But now, after only a few weeks, Ms. Dexter has stepped down.Her departure this week, which she attributed to continuing interference from the editor she was meant to replace, complicates the future of the weekly newspaper, which was once hailed for its journalism, and reflects the thorny reality that healing from racially hurtful acts is rarely a once-and-done process.“I would have liked it to turn out a different way, but it didn’t,” Ms. Dexter, 46, said in an interview Friday. “This is a hard one because it’s sad — so much good could have come out of this.”Her predecessor, Goodloe Sutton, came under intense criticism last month after he wrote an editorial that railed against “Democrats in the Republican Party and Democrats” and called for the return of the most infamous white supremacist group in the nation’s history.In an interview with The Montgomery Advertiser, he went even further, suggesting that the Klan “go up there and clean out D.C.”“We’ll get the hemp ropes out, loop them over a tall limb and hang all of them,” he told The Advertiser.Though The Democrat-Reporter has a circulation of only a few thousand, the editorial landed with a thud at a time when the nation was reckoning with the hurt of politicians who had worn blackface and old yearbooks containing racist slurs.Representative Terri A. Sewell, a Democrat whose congressional district includes Linden, called on Mr. Sutton to step down, and universities quickly rescinded past journalism honors given to Mr. Sutton, who had been recognized, along with his late wife, for exposing corruption in the local sheriff’s department in the 1990s.The incendiary editorial was the latest in a series of pieces in The Democrat-Reporter in recent years that were seen as racially insensitive. An editorial in May 2015 referred repeatedly to black people as “thugs.” And in 2017, during the national debate over football players kneeling in protest of police brutality, the paper published an editorial titled “Let football boys kneel.”“That’s what black folks were taught to do two hundred years ago, kneel before a white man,” it read. “Is that it? Let them kneel!”Amid the controversy last month, Mr. Sutton, 80, offered to hand the paper over to Ms. Dexter, who had been working there as an office clerk. Though she did not have journalism experience, she said she was excited about the opportunity to make a difference in the community.“People have stopped by or they saw me in the store,” she said last month. “Now they feel like it’s going to be a true reflection of everyone.”But in the weeks since, Ms. Dexter said she ran into problems with Mr. Sutton, who retained ownership of the paper, which had been in his family for decades.She said he emailed an altered version of the Feb. 28 issue of the paper to local news outlets and advertisers. She shared copies of both versions of the front page with The New York Times, which showed that an article about his retirement had been replaced with one defending the editorial and criticizing The Advertiser for its coverage.The subject line of one of the emails, which were sent from a work account and which Ms. Dexter shared with The Times, read: “fake news hurts little paper.”Mr. Sutton also interfered with Thursday’s issue of the paper, Ms. Dexter said in a news release, saying that the issue “does not reflect the views or thoughts” of the new editor. Ms. Dexter said she was stepping down to maintain her “integrity and well-being.”Mr. Sutton did not respond to an email or phone call requesting comment Friday. He has previously defended the K.K.K. editorial as satire meant to draw attention to corruption in Washington.For Ms. Dexter, the whirlwind experience plunged her into a national debate about racism and entitlement — and briefly depicted her as a symbol for change. She recalled how she received a message from a man letting her know that his biracial daughter was inspired by her role at the paper.“It is things like that that give me peace,” said Ms. Dexter, who said she was not sure what she would do next.In the end, she said, her decision to step down was complicated by her concerns over Mr. Sutton’s cognitive well-being. She said that his recent behavior was illogical and “more extreme” than it had been in the past.“You can be mad at him, but we can’t keep making this about him,” she said. “People like him will exist. That’s just the reality of life.”“The point,” she said, “is not to give those people all the energy.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe Kansas City Chiefs said on Friday that they had begun an inquiry into their star receiver Tyreek Hill in response to news reports that said the police were investigating his involvement in a battery on a juvenile.“The club is aware of the investigation involving Tyreek Hill,” the Chiefs said in a statement. “We’re in the process of gathering information and have been in contact with the league and local authorities. We’ll have no further comment at this time.”The Kansas City Star reported on Friday that it had obtained a police report that was filed on Thursday after officers responded to a report of a battery on a juvenile at Hill’s home in Overland Park, Kan., a Kansas City suburb. The report does not give details.KCTV said Hill, 25, was involved in two incidents, one on March 5 and another on March 14, according to copies of the police reports that it published. The first report names Hill and his fiancée, Crystal Espinal, and cites “child abuse/neglect.” The case was closed three days later when the police declined to file charges. The second report lists “battery” as the type of incident, but does not indicate what the disposition was.The N.F.L. did not return calls seeking comment.A spokesman at the Overland Park Police Department said the second case, from March 14, has been referred to the Johnson County district attorney’s office in Kansas.A spokesman for the district attorney’s office said that it had not yet received the report and that it would take a few days to process the report once it was received.In 2014, Hill was arrested on domestic violence charges while he was at Oklahoma State. He pleaded guilty to abusing and choking Espinal, who was pregnant at the time, and received three years’ probation.Hill was kicked out of the program and played the 2015 season at the University of West Alabama. He was not invited to the N.F.L. scouting combine because of his legal troubles, but was chosen by the Chiefs in the fifth round of the 2016 draft.Last season was Hill’s best in the N.F.L. He caught 87 passes for 1,479 yards and 12 touchdowns; the team made it to the A.F.C. championship game, losing to the New England Patriots, 37-31, in overtime. He is also one of the league’s best punt returners.The report about Hill came the same day the N.F.L. suspended the former Chiefs running back Kareem Hunt for eight games because of two incidents last year, one of which involved violence against a 19-year-old woman. The Chiefs released Hunt in November after video of that incident was published. He was later picked up by the Cleveland Browns.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherSome cities are not all in on the Super Bowl this year. And those places include the city where the game is being held and the city that one of the two teams calls home.But which city is offering up the most indifference to Sunday’s matchup between the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams? There are four chief candidates.St. Louis was the home of the Rams for 21 years, but more recently not the home of the Rams for the past three years. Fans there are still angry their team left after the 2015 season. Few are excited about the Super Bowl, and fewer still expect to root for the Rams.“Since the Rams left, I’ve watched little to no football. If it’s on a television, I look elsewhere,” the former Rams fan Dan Buffa wrote in an essay on KSDK titled, “Why I Won’t Be Watching the Super Bowl.”Fans are especially bitter about the way the Rams’ owner, Stan Kroenke, a Missouri native, left town with the team: with a flurry of dismissive comments about the city’s economic prospects. In an objection to a plan to finance a new stadium in St. Louis, he wrote: “Any N.F.L. club that signs on to this proposal in St. Louis will be well on the road to financial ruin, and the league will be harmed.”And to many onetime Rams fans, it seemed as if the team didn’t turn on the real effort to win until the move. Sure, the St. Louis Rams went to two Super Bowls, winning in the 1999 season. But after 12 straight seasons at .500 and below in St. Louis, the team waited till it got to Los Angeles to fire Coach Jeff Fisher and bring in the young genius Sean McVay, who brought immediate success.St. Louis fans don’t feel much good will toward the Patriots, either, since that was the team that beat St. Louis in its last trip to the Super Bowl, in 2002. That Rams team, known as the Greatest Show on Turf, was a 14-point favorite. And many former Rams players, including Marshall Faulk, have contended that New England cheated by filming the Rams’ walk-through the day before the game.“Is there anywhere in the rule book that both teams can lose?” a fan named James Heredia asked CBS.Falling a game short of the Super Bowl is painful. When a major reason is a blown call, it stings even more. The agony of losing the N.F.C. conference championship game to the Rams has led many Saints fans to turn their back on the big game.Don’t believe us. Believe the governor.“I’ll be honest — I don’t know anyone who has interest in watching the game in our entire state,” Gov. John Bel Edwards of Louisiana told USA Today. He added the opinion that “it was the worst call in the history of the N.F.L.”It was only two weeks ago, but to refresh your memory: Late in a tied game, with the Saints driving, Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman slammed into New Orleans receiver Tommylee Lewis. It looked like pass interference or a helmet-to-helmet hit, or both. But there was no call, the pass was ruled incomplete, and the Saints had to settle for a field goal. The Rams had time to match that field goal, then won in overtime.On Wednesday, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., acknowledged the officiating crew messed up on the play.The loss, combined with the recent trade request of the Pelicans star Anthony Davis, led Jeff Duncan of The Times-Picayune to write: “With the notable exception of the fall of 2005 when Hurricane Katrina devastated the city, I can’t think of a worse period in our city’s sports history.”Eater New Orleans offered a list of “12 Places to Avoid Super Bowl LIII,” bars and restaurants that promise not to show the game on any of their televisions. In some cases, they will instead show a replay of the Saints’ championship from nine years ago.Nola.com has 25 reasons not to watch the Super Bowl, but “could come up with 325.”There’s enough disdain in New Orleans that fans are using words like “boycott” and saying they hope they can help hold the Super Bowl ratings down to a record low. But even mass participation is unlikely to make a decisive impact: The New Orleans area has a population of a little over a million, and the Super Bowl regularly draws more than 50 million.O.K., it’s overstating it a little to say Los Angeles isn’t excited about going to the Super Bowl. After all, thousands of fans waited in long lines this week for a pregame rally.But while other cities virtually stop when their team makes the big game, Los Angeles has reacted with a comparative shrug.After only three seasons back in town, the Rams haven’t sunk into the city’s bones the way, say, the Packers and the Steelers have in their football-mad hometowns.And, hey, LeBron James just came back to the Lakers after missing five weeks with an injury.The Los Angeles area, home to roughly 13 million people, has 11 major professional sports teams and prominent college programs. Many residents came from somewhere else, and brought their allegiances, perhaps even to the Patriots, with them.Some fans chose other teams during the two decades the N.F.L. was absent from Los Angeles. As Philip Nowlen told The New York Times’s California Today newsletter, “The years without a team led me to fan commitments to the 49ers and the Pats. Maybe after time passes … maybe.”While the Rams drew a robust 72,000 fans a game this season, playing in the cavernous Coliseum meant they were  at 77 percent of capacity, 31st of the 32 teams in the N.F.L.Rams defensive tackle Aaron Donald got some attention this week by proclaiming that L.A. is “a football town now.” But his avowal is less interesting than the fact that he was asked about it at all. No one asked Tom Brady if Boston planned to follow this year’s Super Bowl.It hasn’t even been two years since the Atlanta Falcons blew a 28-3 lead over the Patriots and transformed a third-quarter Super Bowl score into a lasting slur.So perhaps Atlanta can be forgiven if it is greeting anything about any Super Bowl — especially a Patriots-involved Super Bowl — with only so much good cheer.Yes, downtown and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport are glimmering under a global spotlight, and the city, rightly proud of its hospitality tradition, is eager to show it can be the flawless host of a Super Bowl it worked so hard to earn. Mercedes-Benz Stadium, just two seasons old and already a crown jewel of Southern sports, will be on display for all to see.“Everything I’ve been getting so far is superpositive,” said Jessie Tuggle, the beloved linebacker who played his entire professional career for the Falcons and retired after the 2000 season. “I think people like being around people, and there are so many people around. They just love the N.F.L. experience.”And yet. Cue a new round of gripes over traffic. Trigger even more critiques of the Falcons’ middling performances of late, and wonder how so many Super Bowl events seem so out of reach for so many football fans. Stir the complaints over the halftime show, and how and why Maroon 5 landed the biggest gig in a city with one of the country’s richest music scenes.It is even a moment when Atlanta’s prized export, Coca-Cola, is a target for trolling by Pepsi, a major N.F.L. sponsor that has made no secret of its pleasure over a big week in one particular city. (“Look who’s in town for Super Bowl LIII,” read one Pepsi advertisement outside a Coke-sponsored shrine to Coke.)But even with all of that — the Pepsi flowing, the traffic slowing, the Falcons sputtering, Maroon 5 just being Maroon 5 — hey, at least the Saints aren’t playing. Alan BlinderJill Cowan contributed reporting.OpinionFrank BruniAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Hoffman“Obviously this is not our usual business.”With that, Coach Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers opened a season-ending news conference on Wednesday in which he addressed his team’s late-season collapse and the drama surrounding the superstar receiver Antonio Brown, all the while struggling to mask his discomfort.“Extremely disappointed,” Tomlin said in summation of the season. “I think that’s a succinct assessment of it. The fact that we’re actually standing in this room says it all.”The Steelers’ roller coaster of a season began with a 1-2-1 stretch, followed by a six-game winning streak that seemed to quell the early-season consternation, and then a collapse that dragged the team out of the playoff picture.But things hit a new low early this week when it became clear that Brown had missed Sunday’s win over Cincinnati not because of a knee injury, as the team had said, but rather for disciplinary reasons.[Read: The Ravens and the Eagles claw their way to the N.F.L. playoffs]Complicating matters was Brown’s use of social media this week, in which he seemed to be courting attention from the San Francisco 49ers: He followed the team’s Instagram account, posted an Instagram story about Jerry Rice being the greatest wide receiver of all time, and replied to a Twitter post by San Francisco’s George Kittle.But Tomlin, closing out his 12th season with Pittsburgh, kept trying to bring the focus back to the team, insisting that no decisions had been made, that no disciplinary actions had been taken, and that Brown, regardless of his social media chatter, had not requested a trade.“Distractions and things of that nature are part of the job, particularly in today’s N.F.L.,” Tomlin said. “I don’t run away from it; in fact, I embrace it.”The Steelers have had no shortage of distractions in recent years, from the suspensions and contract holdouts of Le’Veon Bell — the superstar running back who sat out the entire 2018 season in hopes of negotiating a larger contract — to Brown’s occasional public disagreements with quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, to the team’s bizarre national anthem protest last season in which no one seemed to be on the same page.Tomlin tried to explain the timeline around Brown’s absence on Sunday as clearly as possible. He said Brown sat out of the team’s practices last week with what was described as a sore knee, then was told on Friday to get an magnetic resonance imaging exam — a test Tomlin says was never performed. After Brown failed to communicate with the team on Friday night, Tomlin said, the Steelers made plans to face the Bengals without him.Tomlin said Brown’s agent, Drew Rosenhaus, reached out Sunday in hopes of getting Brown onto the field, but Tomlin, who agreed to meet with Brown, said that “playing wasn’t on the menu” at that point.When asked if it was the injury or a disciplinary action that kept Brown out on Sunday, Tomlin said, “He was absent due to injury and lack of information.”Now the team must decide what to do with a 30-year-old wide receiver who is clearly still in his prime but who appears to be at something of an impasse with his coach.Tomlin was asked about Brown’s social media usage, and he tried to make light of how much the news media likes to make a big deal of something that is not important to him. But Brown seemed to tweak his coach by posting a message to Twitter during the news conference that could be seen as a response to Tomlin’s comments.Brown was still at the top of his game for Pittsburgh this season. He exceeded 100 receptions for an N.F.L.-record sixth consecutive season, and while he finished behind his teammate JuJu Smith-Schuster in catches and receiving yards — the first season he has not led the Steelers in both categories since 2012 — he scored a career-high 15 touchdowns.But in a rare acknowledgment that distractions can sometimes get out of control, Tomlin said Brown’s situation could “certainly” get to the point where the receiver was more problematic than useful.The issues with trading Brown are plentiful. There is the cap hit the team would take for moving him (a blow that would be softened by savings in future years), the question of how much value a team could get for an aging wide receiver, and the prospect of going into 2019 with neither Bell nor Brown.But Tomlin said his team would “waddle in it right now,” letting this season’s failure sink in before making any decisions about next season. And while he intimated that it would be fair to say that Brown quit on the team, Tomlin said he was doing his best to keep some emotional distance from the issue.“There’s disappointment, there’s no denying that,” Tomlin said. “On a personal level, man, I’ve just learned over the course of time, forget my personal feelings.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanThere’s a bowl for everyone, with the Super Bowl, the Puppy Bowl, the Kitten Bowl and TLC’s "Dr. Pimple Popper: The Poppy Bowl.” SUPER BOWL LIII 6:30 p.m. on CBS. Tom Brady is set to make his ninth Super Bowl appearance Sunday, as the New England Patriots take on the Rams, the first team to represent Los Angeles in the football game since 1984. Sure, the whole thing might feel a little like a rerun considering it’s the Patriots’ fourth Super Bowl in five years, but casual viewers can also expect star-studded commercials and halftime show performances by Maroon 5, Travis Scott and Big Boi during this year’s three-hour broadcast.PUPPY BOWL XV 3 p.m. on Animal Planet. If watching sweaty grown men run up and down a field for three hours isn’t your idea of an enjoyable evening, you may be interested the 15th annual Puppy Bowl, featuring 93 puppies from shelters across the country, all in search of loving homes. This year, the pups will be divided into Team Ruff and Team Fluff and run around a miniature football field scattered with toys while commentators and cameras capture every adorable move behind the scenes, too. Information on how to adopt a puppy will be part of the show, and will be on Animal Planet’s website.KITTEN BOWL VI 2 p.m. on Hallmark. Cat lovers can find their own pet-centric bowl game on Hallmark. The sixth annual Kitten Bowl is hosted by the animal advocate Beth Stern, who’s joined by the former N.F.L. players Rodney Peete, Rashad Jennings and Boomer Esiason, and is also aimed at finding homes for rescue animals.DR. PIMPLE POPPER: THE POPPY BOWL 5 p.m. on TLC. If you’re not already one of Sandra Lee’s  three million Instagram followers,  four million YouTube subscribers or avid TLC show viewers (a.k.a. a “popaholic”), you may not yet realize the satisfaction that can come from watching the celebrity dermatologist extract pus from her patients’ pimples. That could all change Sunday, when TLC airs a six-hour marathon of the show.I AM NOT YOUR NEGRO (2016) on Amazon Prime, Google Play, iTunes,Vudu and YouTube. It’s Black History Month and as good a time as ever to revisit Raoul Peck’s Oscar-nominated documentary about James Baldwin. The film relies on Baldwin’s own words (narrated by Samuel L. Jackson) and is based in part on his unfinished manuscript called “Remember This House.” In his review of the film, A.O. Scott of The New York Times said the movie was “an advanced seminar in racial politics,” one that “speaks to the present moment with greater clarity and force, insisting on uncomfortable truths and drawing stark lessons from the shadows of history.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaTwo days after fans in the United Arab Emirates threw shoes at rival players during a 4-0 loss in the semifinals to Qatar at the Asian Cup, the country’s soccer federation has taken direct aim at the team itself.Organizers of the Asian Cup said on Thursday that they would respond to an official complaint lodged by Emirates soccer officials, who charged that two members of the Qatari team were ineligible to play in the region’s biggest tournament.The players — Almoez Ali, a Sudan-born striker, and Bassam al-Rawi, a defender born in Iraq — are fixtures in Qatar’s lineup. Ali is the tournament’s top scorer, with eight goals in six games, and al-Rawi scored the goal that sent Qatar to the quarterfinals.The complaint is the latest salvo in a bitter dispute between the Gulf neighbors that goes far beyond soccer. The Emirates is part of a two-year-old, Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, driven by a belief that its neighbor is financing terrorism and growing too close to Iran, Saudi Arabia’s biggest regional rival; Qatar has denied playing any role in supporting terrorist groups.The dispute has already manifested itself in ways small and large in the tournament, which now represents Qatar’s biggest success on the soccer field.One consequence of the dispute is that there are no direct flights from Doha to Abu Dhabi, so Qatar’s team had to fly through Oman on its way to the event, and Qatari fans — unable to travel to the Emirates without permission — are largely absent at the team’s matches.But Qatar, which has never qualified for a World Cup but will host the event in 2022, has been the surprise of the field. It will play Japan in the final on Friday.But even as Qatar marched through the field, rumors — fueled by a close reading of FIFA nationality rules — swirled about the eligibility of Ali and al-Rawi.The silence of Qatari officials on the issue has only led to more rumors. A spokesman for the team has not responded to repeated requests for comment, while FIFA, the global governing body for soccer, has said the matter falls under the jurisdiction of the tournament organizer, the Asian Football Confederation.The A.F.C. had said that it would intervene only an official complaint were filed. That complaint arrived in the aftermath of the Emirates’ humiliating defeat in front of its own fans in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday.“The Asian Football Confederation has a received a protest from the United Arab Emirates F.A. regarding the eligibility of two Qatar players,” the A.F.C. said in a statement on Thursday. “This protest will now be reviewed in line with the A.F.C. regulations.”The A.F.C. declined to identify the possible punishment for Qatar. Teams that have previously fielded ineligible players have forfeited games, but the situation has never come up at the final stages of a major international event.Under soccer’s regulations, players are only eligible for a national team outside of their country of birth if they have lived there for five continuous years after turning 18. Al-Rawi is 21 and Ali is 22. The rules make an exception that permits players to represent a country if a parent or grandparent was born there; many countries, including the United States, regularly take advantage of the exception.Qatar has been trawling the world for talent for years in preparation for the 2022 World Cup, embarking on perhaps the most extensive talent identification program in history, one that involved the creation of training programs for youngsters from Africa and an academy for the best prospects in Doha.Officials in the country have said in the past that the program does not require those scouted to pick Qatar over their birth countries. Though born in Sudan, Ali has lived in Qatar since he was a child. Al-Rawi’s father once represented Iraq internationally.Still, Qatar’s squads at the youth and senior levels have included several expatriate players, and the eligibility was not questioned when Ali and al-Rawi represented the country at previous tournaments sanctioned by FIFA and the A.F.C.It was not clear why the Emirates, or any of Qatar’s other opponents — including Saudi Arabia, which lost to Qatar, 2-0 — did not raise the issue until after the semifinal.The victories over the Saudis and the Emirates were greeted by scenes of jubilation in Qatar, where fans draped in the country’s flag took to the streets of Doha to celebrate the victories.For the hosts, the defeat was particularly painful given the efforts it had made to create a partisan atmosphere inside Abu Dhabi’s Zayed Sports City Stadium. Local organizers distributed thousands of free tickets to what it described as “loyal” fans before the game.For the A.F.C., the issue also raises another political issue. Its president, Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, is being challenged for his post by candidates from the Emirates and Qatar.The organization has opened a separate investigation over the shoe- and bottle-throwing incidents that marred the semifinal. That case could lead to sanctions.AdvertisementKeeping ScoreJust four years after Major League Baseball’s integration, Newcombe won 20 games for the Dodgers. That was the start of an extraordinary club. Don Newcombe was the first black player to win 20 games. He did so three times in his career.CreditCreditAssociated PressSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanWhen Dave Stewart reported to big league camp for the Los Angeles Dodgers in the mid-1970s, he did so as one of baseball’s rarities: a black starting pitcher. Fortunately for Stewart, Don Newcombe was in camp to walk the teenager through those early days, setting Stewart up for future stardom.“His influence on me is beyond words,” Stewart said. “I can’t even tell you how huge it was for me to meet him at the time I did in my career.”Being around Newcombe, who died on Tuesday at 92, gave Stewart unfiltered access to what Mudcat Grant, another top black pitcher, would one day describe as a Black Ace. Grant, who wrote a book on the subject, had simple criteria for that distinction: an American- or Canadian-born black player who won 20 games in a season. That’s it.Newcombe did it first, winning 20 for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1951, just four seasons after his eventual teammate Jackie Robinson broke baseball’s color barrier. In the 67 seasons since, 195 pitchers besides Newcombe have recorded a 20-win season, and only 14 of them were black — a select list that includes Stewart, who won at least 20 games in four consecutive seasons, from 1987 to 1990.Making wins the sole criterion for being a Black Ace may seem antiquated, but Stewart said the 20-win mark represented something beyond the technical definition of the statistic. To him, 20 wins showed that the player was a workhorse, shouldering a burden for his teammates by taking them deep into games.Vida Blue, a three-time 20-game winner, said that the standard worked because it set a high bar of success among an already-select group of people.“To become a starting pitcher in itself was unique,” he said. “It’s no different than being a black quarterback.”Out of Grant’s book emerged a support group of sorts. There were initially 12 Black Aces — Newcombe, Sam Jones, Bob Gibson, Grant, Ferguson Jenkins, Earl Wilson, Al Downing, Blue, J.R. Richard, Mike Norris, Dwight Gooden and Stewart — and Grant organized events for some of them to attend, reached out to young players and pushed for recognition for the Black Aces’ accomplishments.As Grant’s health faltered in recent years, the group drifted apart even as it added three new members: Dontrelle Willis, C. C. Sabathia and David Price. “This group deserves to be more than just a footnote in baseball history,” said Bob Kendrick, the president of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. “If it takes the passing of Don Newcombe to help us reflect and remember, then that’s another gift that he has given us.”Why haven’t there been more Black Aces in recent years? There are two popular explanations: Winning 20 games is remarkably difficult in modern baseball, and there simply aren’t that many black players on major league rosters. Last year, there was an uptick in the latter, with the number of black players from the United States and Canada on opening-day active rosters rising to 8.4 percent, according to Major League Baseball, but that was well below the sport’s high-water mark of 19 percent, in 1986. Among that 8.4 percent, black starting pitchers were a minority within another minority, a group that includes Sabathia, Price, Chris Archer and Tyson Ross.Blue, who reached the majors in 1969, thought the explanation could be as simple as athletes who choose baseball over football or basketball wanting to play a position that had more action. But according to Kendrick, the scarcity of black pitchers goes all the way back to the early days of integration, and that, at least initially, it wasn’t the players making the decision.“During that era of the Negro Leagues, the pitching position, the catching position and the shortstop position were all seen as cerebral positions,” he said. “You had this underlying belief that black athletes weren’t smart enough to do it.”Newcombe emphatically proved any doubters wrong. He established himself as a front-line starter in his first three seasons, with a 56-28 record and 3.39 earned run average. After missing two seasons because of military service, and then struggling in his first year back, he soared to new heights in 1955, helping to lead the Dodgers to their first World Series title. In 1956, a season that ended with a loss to the Yankees in the World Series, Newcombe not only won 27 games and the National League’s Most Valuable Player Award, but he also was named the first winner of the newly established Cy Young Award, which that season was given to the best pitcher in the majors. Newcombe, by his own frequent admissions, struggled with alcohol in his career, which most likely contributed to a steep decline after the 1956 season. His major league career ended abruptly in 1960, and his playing days came to an unusual end in 1962 with a brief sojourn to Japan, where he played mostly as an outfielder. But Newcombe quit drinking and was back working with the Dodgers by 1970, positioning him for his eventual role mentoring Stewart and dozens of other players, including the Dodgers’ current closer, Kenley Jansen.It was Newcombe’s innate ability to relate his experiences to young players that Kendrick said would leave a “gaping void” after the star player’s death. “Every time we lose one of these guys that window of opportunity closes just a little more,” he said. “At some point in time there won’t be any Negro league players left to attest to what that league was all about.”But from one Black Ace to another, Newcombe taught Stewart the value of being there when new black starters come along. And Stewart said he was proud that both Sabathia and Willis have acknowledged the influence he had on their careers. “For those guys, I was present when they needed me,” Stewart said.Newcombe wouldn’t have had it any other way.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiA biographical drama starring Keira Knightley is streaming on Amazon. And “Terrace House: Opening New Doors” returns on Netflix.COLETTE (2018) Stream on Amazon; rent on Amazon, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube.  The French author Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (Keira Knightley) broke boundaries in more ways than one. This period drama by Wash Westmoreland charts her evolution from a country girl to a fearless game-changer whose somewhat risqué novels about strong women earned her a nomination for the Nobel Prize in Literature. But many hurdles came before success, most notably those created by her first husband, Henry Gauthier-Villars (Dominic West), a brash Parisian writer with the pen name Willy. When he starts running out of money to pay his writers, Willy asks Colette to ghostwrite a novel for him. It becomes a huge success and Willy forces Colette to keep the words coming. That pressure, and a few affairs, strains their relationship, but it also inspires Colette to strike out on her own. In her review in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis wrote that Colette “is never as wild as you might hope for a literary titan and voluptuary who first writes herself into history with her ‘Claudine’ novels while bedding men and women alike. But she’s consistently, gratifyingly, full-bodied company.”TERRACE HOUSE: OPENING NEW DOORS Stream on Netflix. Some questions to keep in mind during Part 6 of this addictive Japanese reality series about a group of strangers under a single roof: Has the crew moved houses? Will this batch of episodes be the last in “Opening New Doors?” Who are some of the new faces that will be joining the fun? And of course, who’s going to find love, or something like it, this time around?JIMMY CARR: THE BEST OF, ULTIMATE, GOLD, GREATEST HITS (2019) Stream on Netflix. The British comedian Jimmy Carr delivers a compilation of his best one-liners and provocative jokes in this new special. Carr is also the host of the Netflix game show “The Fix,” in which comics gather to try to solve gargantuan problems — climate change, the wealth gap — in under 30 minutes.PROJECT BLUE BOOK 10 p.m. on History. This season finale reimagines the panic after multiple U.F.O. sightings paralyzed Washington in 1952. Racing against the clock, top officials enlist Hynek (Aidan Gillen) and Quinn (Michael Malarkey) to find out exactly what had been spotted.THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC.  For dramatic moments this season, nothing tops the time our bachelor, Colton, tried to escape the compound by jumping the fence.  Then again, this is Bachelor Nation. That former football player felt crushed after Cassie said she couldn’t reciprocate his love. Season 23 wraps up with the heartbroken bachelor dishing on his last days on the show.CORPORATE 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. The second season of this nihilistic workplace comedy ends with two back-to-back episodes. Jake (Jake Weisman) gets an irritating co-worker, and after their boss ups the ante on a project, Matt (Matt Ingebretson) and Jake forge their own paths.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Kevin DraperCHARLOTTE, N.C. — As the N.B.A. prepares for All-Star Game festivities this weekend in Charlotte, N.C., the backdrop to the celebration is unequivocally political, as nearly everything in the divided state seems to be these days.The event was supposed to have been in Charlotte in 2017. But in March 2016, the Republican-controlled state legislature passed a law, known as House Bill 2 or HB2, that invalidated local government ordinances establishing anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. It required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the genders listed on their birth certificates.Supporters called the law a necessary public safety measure, but opponents condemned it as intolerant, and a backlash emerged, chasing away businesses, conventions and concerts and testing sports leagues that are normally averse to political debates.The N.B.A. moved the All-Star Game from Charlotte to New Orleans. The N.C.A.A. and the Atlantic Coast Conference removed championship games and tournaments from the state, a stunning blow given the hold college basketball has over North Carolina.Political scientists say the law contributed when the governor at the time, Pat McCrory, a Republican, lost his subsequent re-election bid by 10,000 votes.“There was a sense that the election was a referendum on HB2, and a verdict was rendered,” said Pope McCorkle, a professor of public policy at Duke University and a former Democratic political consultant.A year later, with the N.C.A.A. saying the state had 48 hours to change the law or lose the chance to host any N.C.A.A. championship games through 2022, House Bill 2 was partially repealed. That was enough for the N.B.A., and it has allowed Charlotte to present itself as a welcoming place, however much some activists believe the repeal did not go far enough.For sports organizations, the partial repeal, known as HB142, allowed them to return to the state, a growing and important market. Within weeks, the N.C.A.A. and the A.C.C. returned championship games to North Carolina, and the N.B.A. quickly awarded Charlotte the 2019 All-Star Game. N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver said that he understood concerns that the repeal did not go far enough but that he believed it eliminated “the most egregious aspects of the prior law.”That the N.B.A. and the N.C.A.A. found themselves in the middle of a pitched political brawl in the Tar Heel state was fitting. Sports have long been intertwined with politics in North Carolina.Kenan Memorial Stadium, where the University of North Carolina’s football teams have played for 90 years, was originally named for William R. Kenan, a 19th century merchant who led the massacre of dozens of black residents of Wilmington. In 2018, the university decided to name the stadium instead for his son, William R. Kenan. Jr., a former university trustee and businessman.In the 1960s, Dean Smith, the longtime coach of North Carolina’s basketball team, was a force for integration and civil rights in the state. More recently, former North Carolina athletes helped end plans to return a Confederate monument to campus.Activists and Democratic politicians praise the role sports organizations played in overturning House Bill 2, but only to a point. The partial repeal overturned the portions of the law dealing with restrooms but largely left the other provisions intact. They see it as a less discriminatory law that is far from perfect.“Philosophically, it wasn’t the correct fix, but it achieved a good objective,” said Representative Deb Butler, a Democrat and one of North Carolina’s few openly gay lawmakers. She voted against the partial repeal.Kathy Behrens, the N.B.A.’s president of social responsibility, said the league has equality principles that each arena, vendor, hotel or other business the N.B.A. works with for the All-Star Game is required to adhere to.Among other requirements, she said, each partner must “ensure that any restroom it provides for its personnel or the general public will be open for use by all individuals consistent with their gender identities.”Still, some states, including New York and California, maintain bans against any official state travel to North Carolina. Netflix recently opted to film “OBX,” which is set in North Carolina’s Outer Banks, in South Carolina because of the bill. A lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union challenging portions of the bill is pending.“This debate should never have been about sports,” said Chris Brook, the legal director of the A.C.L.U. of North Carolina. “Basketball is something of a religion here in North Carolina, but HB2 and HB142 at bottom are about people’s lives and their rights to live a public life.”North Carolina’s political battles continue. The Supreme Court will rule this year on partisan gerrymandering in the state, and one of the North Carolina’s seats in the House of Representatives remains vacant because of credible voter fraud allegations. A bloody state budget battle looms.For the moment, though, sports is not on the docket.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael J. de la Merced and Jack EwingDeutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s two largest lenders, said on Sunday that they had begun merger discussions, in what analysts see as a last-ditch effort to create a national champion that can compete with the giant American investment banks.In a statement, Deutsche Bank said that its board would explore “strategic options” meant to shore up its growth and profitability, and Commerzbank confirmed the merger talks. Both lenders cautioned that the talks may not lead to a deal.The idea of merging the two firms has gained support in recent months within each bank, and with the German government, after previous rounds of talks over the years failed.The combined bank would have $2 trillion in assets and be the third-largest lender in Europe, behind HSBC Holdings in Britain and BNP Paribas of France. Together, Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank would have about one-fifth of the private customers in Germany, in theory giving them enough critical mass to be profitable in the country’s overcrowded retail banking market.For Berlin, combining the two would create a new national champion lender that could support the country’s huge export industry and compete for international business with the giant Wall Street banks. For the lenders, it offers the opportunity to gain financial scale, cut costs and combine technology.But analysts have questioned whether fusing two beleaguered banks would simply create an even bigger problem. Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank are among the least profitable banks of their size, primarily because they are too large and unwieldy in relation to the revenue they generate.Deutsche Bank reported a net loss of 409 million euros, or about $464 million, for the fourth quarter of 2018. Commerzbank did better, reporting a profit of €113 million on revenue of €2.1 billion. Investors, however, remain skeptical. Shares of both banks have been trading near 10-year lows amid reports that the banks might be considering a merger.In a message to employees on Sunday, Christian Sewing, Deutsche’s chief executive said, “I have consistently stressed that consolidation in the German and European banking sector is an important topic for us.” He added, “Our stated aim remains to be a global bank with a strong capital markets business — based on a leading position in our home market in Germany and in Europe, and with a global network.”Rumors have been circulating for months that German political leaders were trying to orchestrate a merger to create a homegrown alternative to overseas giants, including established American ones, like JPMorgan Chase, and fast-growing Chinese ones. If there is another financial crisis, officials in Berlin do not want German businesses to be dependent on foreign banks for credit and access to capital markets.Olaf Scholz, Germany’s finance minister and a member of the center-left Social Democrats, has repeatedly stressed his belief that the country needs a large financial institution to compete at a global level. His deputy, Jörg Kukies, a former head of Goldman-Sachs in Germany, has met several dozen times with representatives of Deutsche Bank. The ministry acknowledged the news on Sunday, saying, “We are in regular contact with all involved parties.”The deal still faces many hurdles. Unions that represent Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank have expressed opposition to a merger, which would certainly lead to thousands of job cuts. And agreeing on the terms of a merger may be difficult as executives of the two longtime rivals seek to defend their turf.The Verdi service workers’ union, one of Germany’s largest unions, made clear its displeasure with a potential merger. “We reject a possible fusion of both banks with a view to the danger posed to tens of thousands of jobs,” Jan Duscheck, who heads the division for bank workers, said in a statement. He cited, among others, the retail and investment banking divisions as points where current difficulties at both banks would only be worsened by a merger.“A fusion would lead to additional problems,” Mr. Duscheck said, “but without solving existing problems.”Both banks are based in Frankfurt, and their headquarters are within easy walking distance of each other.A merger would leave Germany with just one bank with a significant international footprint, and might be the final chapter in the long decline of the once mighty German banking system.Of the five biggest German banks at the end of the 1990s, Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank are the only two that still exist as independent entities. Both banks were founded in 1870, as Germany was emerging as an industrial power.Previous banking mergers in Germany have not turned out well.Commerzbank required a government bailout in 2009 after it acquired Dresdner Bank, which turned out to have billions of euros in toxic assets. The German government still owns about 15 percent of Commerzbank.Deutsche Bank is still struggling to absorb Postbank, which it acquired in 2010.But Deutsche Bank’s biggest problem is that it lacks a clear identity or competitive advantage in the global banking market, analysts say. And it is still dealing with the legal consequences of its attempt to become a major player on Wall Street.Deutsche Bank became caught in many of the big scandals of the early 2000s: rigging interest rates, selling toxic mortgages, laundering money and violating sanctions. It paid billions of dollars in fines.Deutsche Bank’s reputation continues to suffer. In November, German prosecutors and police officers raided Deutsche Bank’s headquarters in Frankfurt as part of an investigation into whether some bank employees helped criminals launder money in offshore tax havens. The bank has said that its own inquiry uncovered no wrongdoing by employees.In the United States, Deutsche Bank has become caught up in investigations of President Trump. The bank was one of the few lenders willing to do business with Mr. Trump in recent years.Last week, the New York attorney general’s office issued subpoenas to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank for records relating to the financing of four major Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League in 2014, according to a person briefed on the subpoenas.Deutsche Bank is already the subject of two congressional investigations.The main rationale for the merger is that it would give the combined entity a big enough share of the German banking market to be profitable.The German banking market is notoriously difficult for commercial banks because consumer and small-business lending is dominated by quasi-public savings banks. That makes it hard for lenders like Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank to make money, even though they are based in one of the world’s most formidable economies.The merger of Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank may be the final megadeal on the résumé of Paul Achleitner, a former Goldman Sachs executive who is now chairman of Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board. Mr. Achleitner has been a behind-the-scenes force in the restructuring of German banking for decades.Melissa Eddy contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBig CityBy Ginia Bellafante[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The antics of the marching band at Columbia University were not like the banh mi at Oberlin, enraging students with its ciabatta and coleslaw and dark sins of cultural appropriation. Steeped in longstanding customs, the band’s best-known ritual, born of the rebellions of the 1960s, was not an obvious candidate for a trigger warning either, given that it was entirely predictable and widely familiar.Every May and December, for more than 40 years, late at night just before the beginning of finals, band members would arrive in Room 209 of Butler Library to play loudly and perform a short comedy routine, much of which was aimed at satirizing inane campus policies and ineffective administrators. The semiannual event, known as Orgo Night (so named because it was originally held right before organic chemistry exams), was meant to signal to the world that Columbia was a place of occasional levity — that the student experience went beyond the toil and grind. Columbia’s reputation for sociality and fun is widely known as the weakest in the Ivy League.Then in December of 2016 came what some students called the actual “war on fun,” or whatever existed of it. The administration told the band it could no longer hold Orgo Night at Butler because it was too loud and distracting. The school’s head librarian, Ann Thornton, felt that it threatened the sanctity of library space at a time when so many students were so anxiously studying. The band would have to take its shenanigans somewhere else.The band disagreed. In a lengthy statement, the band’s board pointed out that by performing in the library, “the band disrupts not just a library but also the campus’s pervasive stress culture.” It was important to show students that they could seek relief from that culture, for what was essentially some diverting nonsense, lasting no more than 45 minutes. Although it went unmentioned in the letter, the semester was ending on a particularly unsettling note, after a spate of student suicides, which some on campus spoke about within the context of the school’s ethos of intensity and unhealthy competition.Beyond that, students actually seemed to enjoy Orgo Night in Butler Hall, crowding the room and saving seats for one another.The band abided the new rule until it didn’t. The following December, in 2017, it sneaked instruments into Butler the day before Orgo Night and performed there anyway. As Samantha Rowan, president of the Columbia University Band Alumni Association, put it, the students were tired of dealing with “a disrespectful administration” that treated them like “naughty children.” Officials were angry. “Which was fair, I guess,” Cameron Adam Danesh-Pajou, the band’s head manager, remarked to me recently.But the consequences did not seem so, especially given the legacy of 1968, when student demonstrations that resulted in some of the largest mass arrests in New York City’s history enshrined protest and defiance as essential elements of Columbia’s identity. Even though the band behaved itself, performing outside the following spring, the administration told band managers this past fall that it was pulling a bulk of the group’s funding —$15,000 of the $25,000 it received annually to cover the cost of instruments, repairs, travel to football and basketball games and so on — at the end of the current academic year.Mr. Danesh-Pajou explained that one result of the cuts is that it would be harder for all but the most privileged students to participate in the band, because the band has typically covered meals on the road and various other expenses. As it happens, the cuts are unfolding against the backdrop of new data from the National Center for Education Statistics showing that over the past decade, the total cost of attending Columbia as an undergraduate — after grants and scholarships — has steadily decreased for middle and upper middle class students while it has steadily gone up for lower-income students.“When you commit an act of civil disobedience you should expect a sanction,” Dan Carlinsky, who serves on an advisory board in the band’s alumni association, told me. “But in this case, because of the actions of a few students, the band was getting punished in perpetuity.” Mr. Carlinsky, who functions as the band’s historian, pointed out that the university’s position also seemed hypocritical, given that it has highlighted Orgo Night in some of its fund-raising and recruitment materials as evidence that, contrary to assumptions, Columbia does in fact posses humor and spirit.When I asked a spokesman for Columbia about the stipend reduction, the university provided the response it has given band members all along — that it was revoking funding because the band needed to change its bureaucratic designation to better align itself with other student groups that were subject to greater accountability. The marching band was something of an outlier in the way it was overseen, but if it changed its status, it would be available for different funding streams.The band has countered that those streams could not deliver anywhere near the amount of money it needs to function. Even travel to home games during the football season is expensive; it’s not practical to take a tuba on the subway.Was something else going on? Some in the alumni community, like Ms. Rowan, believed that the university had come to see the comedy component of Orgo Night, which was not always 100 percent dependably anodyne, as a liability in an age of heightened political sensitivities. Certainly some students took offense at some of the material, Avah Toomer, an undergraduate, told me. I contacted her because she had written a piece for The Columbia Spectator in which she questioned the band’s decision to pursue “tradition over courtesy.” In an email, she described Orgo Night as a “mildly inconvenient sonic affront,’’ but she found the jokes made in the most recent round, for the most part, to be witty and insightful.The skits took aim at Brett Kavanaugh, campus housing, Columbia’s slow-to-change core curriculum and Ivy League admissions (“we should just abolish affirmative action for white people, better known as: athletic recruitment, legacy admissions, and Midwestern representation”) among other subjects.It is hard to see who would be aggrieved by these kinds of attacks on power, except perhaps the power structure itself. “We live in a world where people don’t listen to one another,” Ms. Rowan remarked. “I’d like for everyone to sit down and really hear each other out. But that just doesn’t seem to be happening.”Email bigcity@nytimes.com. Follow Ginia Bellafante on Twitter: @GiniaNYTAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrendingFor fitness enthusiasts who also love traveling to far-flung locales, a new breed of travel company wants to take you anywhere you want to go — and give you a great workout when you arrive. By Amy Tara KochFirst came workout boot camps. Then off-the-grid yoga retreats. Next, hotel chains touting celebrity-orchestrated fitness programs. Now, there is another way to travel without leaving your workout behind. Fitness pop-ups in vacation destinations like Capri, Sri Lanka, Goa and Vietnam all offer relaxing getaways combined with exercise options, sightseeing and meals prepared by a professional chef. Often, these groups stay in private, rented villas. These four companies have created custom itineraries with workouts and wellness in mind.Designed for solo travelers to experience off-the-beaten-track destinations through fitness and wellness, Escape to Shape’s itineraries include destinations like Marrakesh, Jaipur, Siem Reap, Bhutan, Botswana and Cape Town. The packages are ideal for goal-oriented, luxury lovers who want a fitness-based trip in an exotic destination without skimping on the indulgences of a high-end getaway. Erica Gragg, founder of the firm and a former event planner, hosts every trip personally and has a winning formula: workouts inspired by bucket list settings (Khmer boxing in Cambodia, circuit Training on the ancient rampart in Cartagena, beach boot camp in Vietnam, yoga in the underground cisterns of Istanbul), wellness elements (journal writing, meditation, yoga, massage) and thoughtful excursions (market visits, group hammam visits, a water blessing with a Buddhist monk, wine tastings) intended to deliver a culturally authentic taste of the destination. Guests stay at five-star hotels or villas and enjoy healthful meals prepared by an on-site chef.Rates from $4,500 to $14,000 per person, depending on location, room type and length of trip. International airfare and alcohol excluded.In 2012, Zanna Conlan, a former Australian football coach and surf instructor, started Active Escapes as a way for fitness aficionados to have a sweat-laced, tropical getaway — think twice daily high-intensity interval training, surfing and evening yoga — with like-minded vacationers. What began in Bali for the company has evolved into trips to seven destinations, including Australia, Hawaii, Dubai, Barbados, the Maldives and India, some featuring a marquee trainer like the American bodybuilder Steve Cook. When guests aren’t swinging kettlebells on the beach, they go snorkeling, surfing, biking or practice sunset yoga. Lodgings are private villas or boutique hotels, and last year the company added a trip aboard a 123-foot yacht in the Maldives featuring beach workouts on different islands.Rates from $1,500 to $8,250 per person, depending on location, room type and length of trip. Airfare and alcohol excluded.As the company’s mantra “no goals, all vibes” indicates, four-year-old Surf Yoga Beer represents a version of this trend that’s focused a little more on fun than fitness. Billed as “sleepaway camp for adults” (participants share rooms, often with bunk beds, in a large house or small hotels), the company’s fitness adventures to Ibiza, Havana, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Miami are about bonding over intense exercise and partying (unlimited beer is included in the price of the trip).Mantas Zvinas, the company’s founder, a happy-go-lucky surf coach and Soul Cycle instructor, leads the itineraries personally along with a number of marquee trainers including Jaws Nelson and Julian Devine of NYC’s Rumble Boxing, and Hunter McIntyre, the professional obstacle course racer. The trips are packed with beach boot-camp workouts, surf sessions, yoga, hiking, stand-up paddle boarding and, in some locations, sightseeing. The traveling chef-in-residence, Eddie Larios, extends the communal ambience with an open-for-visits kitchen, impromptu cooking classes and visits to local markets. Rates range from $999 to $3,600 per person, depending on location, room type and length of trip. Airfare and alcohol, outside of beer and the group happy hour, are excluded.Sometimes women just want to relax, and work out, with other women. That’s why Rebecca Garland’s women-only Fit & Fly Girl retreats have taken off. The trips are for women who enjoy a balance of fitness and activity-based sightseeing in locations like Cote d’Azur, Buenos Aires, Costa Rica, Ibiza and Morocco. Excursions include perfume-making in Provence, sunset kayaking in Ibiza, watching polo matches in Buenos Aires, visiting Yves Saint Laurent’s garden, Jardin Majorelle, in Marrakesh. Those adventures are book-ended between fitness classes that range from cardio dance and circuit training to Pilates and foam rolling, and elegant meals are served communally by a local chef at the group’s private villas. For 2019, the company has added trips to Mykonos and Palm Springs. Rates from $3,200 to $5,600 per person, depending on location, room type and length of trip. Airfare and alcohol excluded.An earlier edition of this article misspelled the surname of the founder of the Active Escapes firm. His name is Zanna Conlan, not Conlon.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebSometimes the solution to improving student attendance can be as simple as offering an alarm clock, a bus token or a free breakfast. For schools in Kentucky, Missouri, New Jersey, Colorado and elsewhere across the country, especially those serving low-income populations, the answer is a washing machine.“If it’s a choice between coming to school dirty, and have kids laugh at you or make fun of you, and staying home, they’ll stay home,” said Rebecca Nicolas, the principal at Fern Creek High School in Louisville, Ky., where almost 70 percent of students qualify for subsidized or free lunches.This month, the school opened a “Laundry and Loot” room, where students can bring their clothes to be washed, and also pick up donated items such as socks and deodorant.All 1,750 students are eligible to participate, and teachers and counselors are recruiting students to bring their laundry to school.Students are given a mesh bag with a numbered identification tag (and soon, a more discreet backpack to carry the mesh bag). They can drop the bag off in the administrative office or in the laundry room, where the clothes will be washed and folded by an assistant who is also on hand to give lessons.“We’re just trying to remove as many barriers to school attendance as possible,” Dr. Nicolas said.According to the Department of Education and the Civil Rights Data Collection, approximately one out of six students was chronically absent during the 2015-16 school year, meaning they missed more than 15 days of school for any reason.Absenteeism can impede a child’s ability to learn how to read, and can lead older students to fail courses and become more likely to drop out, studies have found.Until recently, absences at public school were tallied with paper and pencil, and measured through truancy, or unexcused absences, and a school’s average daily attendance, said Hedy Chang, who is the executive director of Attendance Works, a nonprofit initiative dedicated to reducing chronic absences.Historically, schools have responded to unexcused absences with punitive measures, she said.“Truancy has been all about compliance in a legal system,” she said, and not about developing a “deeper understanding” of the reasons students stay home.With the passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act in 2015, and the widespread adoption of electronic records, chronic absenteeism became a nationally recognized metric. By 2017, she said the vast majority of states had adopted chronic absences as a standard measurement for school accountability.“Now this data can be used as an early warning that we need to invest in relationship building, problem solving and understanding what’s going on,” she said.About two years ago, mentors in a program for chronically absent students alerted the principal of Benjamin Banneker Elementary in Kansas City, Mo., that dirty clothes were keeping students home, said Derald Davis, the assistant superintendent for Kansas City Public Schools.At the time, only about 46 percent of students were meeting the requirement to attend school 90 percent of the time, Dr. Davis said. But since the school received funding from the United Way to install a washing machine, the number of students meeting the requirement jumped to 84 percent.Now, at least five elementary schools in the district have installed machines, he said, which is the first step in helping students achieve broader learning goals.“Once we get them in the seat,” he said, “then we can work on minimizing the other gaps.”At Doull Elementary in Denver, almost all of the 400 students qualified for free or reduced lunches, and received breakfast in the mornings. Sometimes teachers have helped pay for medications and electric bills for struggling families. Some have even taken clothes home for students, and returned them clean.“There are many families that take pride in how they look,” said Jo Carrigan, the school’s principal, and “don’t want to send their children to school because they don’t have clean clothes.”The school received a $10,000 grant to install a washing machine through a program organized by Whirlpool and Teach for America, which has installed commercial-grade machines at 72 schools in 13 cities.The school used to have a washing machine for custodians in a “dungeon-y area,” Ms. Carrigan said. In January, the new machine was installed in a brightly lit room near the cafeteria, where students are invited to learn the basics of measuring detergent and clothing care. Ms. Carrigan said students with intellectual disabilities who are learning functional skills, like grocery shopping and using money, are also learning how to do laundry.Ms. Carrigan said that the program was still in its infancy and that administrators were working with the school’s psychologist to identify students who would benefit from the program.A laundry program at West Side High School in Newark has changed the culture of the school and helped reduce bullying, said the school’s principal, Akbar Cook.Mr. Cook used a $20,000 grant from a local utility company to convert an old football locker room into a laundry room and has since been recognized by Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and the talk show host Ellen DeGeneres.At the high school in Kentucky, the school’s alumni association collected about $1,000 to buy a washing machine and dryer for the students and made plumbing and ventilation modifications to a supply closet.The space, replete with signs of inspirational sayings such as “Life is tough but so are you,” also has a clothes closet, which will soon have secondhand semiformal dresses for prom.The goal is to “take the stigma out of getting help,” Dr. Nicolas said, “so that they’re comfortable being in class.”“It’s not a huge expenditure for the school,” she said.Although there have been a few comments on the school’s social media accounts saying this is government overreach, the response has been overwhelmingly positive.“People from the community are randomly dropping off detergent,” she said. “I think because it’s a tangible good. People say, ‘This is an opportunity for me to help and they want to be a part of it.’”AdvertisementJason Hairston played briefly in the N.F.L., hunted with Donald Trump Jr. and owned a wildly successful hunting gear and apparel company. But he increasingly worried about a degenerative brain disease.CreditCreditPaul BrideSupported byBy John BranchDIXON, Calif. — The blast from upstairs shattered the quiet of a small-town weeknight. It was all so sudden. Or had it been coming for years?Jason Hairston had just been downstairs with his young son and daughter, who could not understand why their father was acting so strange. His wife, on the phone from across the country, was desperately trying to get her husband to say something, anything.He ended the call without a word, walked upstairs and closed the bedroom door. He lay down on his wife’s side of the bed, lifted a gun under his chin and pulled the trigger.The son, Cash, was 10, old enough to have previously Googled “C.T.E.”, wise enough to know what had just happened, poised enough to block his 9-year-old sister, Coco, from instinctively running upstairs toward the sound. He pulled her outside. The police and family members were on the way.If there is such a thing as the American dream, Hairston, at 47, gave every indication that he was living it. He was a former college football star who played briefly with two N.F.L. teams, and he was the founder of KUIU, a top-end outfitter of hunting gear and apparel. He had legions of faithful customers and good friends who aspired to be like him.He traveled to the most remote and rugged edges of the earth in search of quiet adventures and big game. He had just returned from a caribou hunting trip in Alaska with his father and son. And he had been sheep hunting with Donald Trump Jr. in the Yukon a couple of weeks before.He had recently described his wife and business partner, Kirstyn, during a 20th anniversary dinner toast as “truly my rock, my soul mate, the most loyal wife you could ever have.”They had family photos that looked like the kind that come with the frame. They lived in a grandly renovated home just a block and a half from where Kirstyn’s family ran the city of Dixon’s favorite gathering spot, Bud’s Pub and Grill, at the corner of First and A Street. It was two miles from the headquarters of KUIU, which has been heralded as a runaway business success.Hairston had it all, or so it seemed. Then the gun went off. And the questions echoed long after everything went quiet on that Tuesday evening in September.The case of Jason Hairston is unusual for at least two reasons. First, he was convinced, years ago, that he had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., the progressive degenerative brain disease caused by repeated hits to the head. It can be diagnosed with certainty only in the dead, but he and Kirstyn, now 46, intensely studied the research. They saw a clear picture of Hairston in all the data points and accounts of deteriorating brains, especially in football players.Second, Hairston defied the image of a diminished victim of C.T.E. He was in near-perfect physical health, with 3 percent body fat and model-handsome looks. Confident and charismatic to the end, his public persona contradicted the corruption he felt in his brain.“He was very open about it, but I just didn’t see it,” Brendan Burns, Hairston’s closest hunting partner and a KUIU executive (now co-chief executive), said shortly after Hairston’s death. “I was like: ‘Dude, I think you’re overthinking this. You’re paranoid.’ Because what you read about is the guy who can’t get out his front door. He was so sharp. Maybe that’s why I didn’t think much about it. It was conceptual. It wasn’t like we were on a sheep hunt and he’s trying to skin a sheep with a spoon.”Hairston was a linebacker in high school and at the University of California, Davis, not far from Dixon. He signed with the San Francisco 49ers in May 1995, and spent part of the season on the team’s practice squad. The Denver Broncos signed Hairston the next May, but he left the game for good a month later with numbness from a lingering neck injury in college.An avid hunter, he saw an open niche in high-end hunting apparel, a market overlooked by the likes of the North Face or Patagonia. Hairston co-founded Sitka Gear in 2005, and after a management shuffle, he moved on to start KUIU, a direct-to-consumer company, in 2011.Hairston became KUIU’s public face, an aspirational figure. Photos and videos of him hunting sheep, moose, bear and other big game were featured in the company’s savvy social media marketing and glossy catalogs. Forbes reported that KUIU did $50 million in sales in 2016.I spent time with Hairston in Dixon in 2016 while exploring story ideas. (It eventually led to an article in 2017 titled, “The Ultimate Pursuit in Hunting: Sheep”; Hairston and Burns played roles.) Hairston was focused and engaging, which made it a surprise when he mentioned that he thought he had C.T.E.He had a history of concussions, he said, too many to remember. He was fighting headaches, mood swings, impulsivity — all symptoms of C.T.E., which shares characteristics with Alzheimer's disease.Knowing that I had written many accounts of C.T.E., including one shortly before we met, about the former Oakland Raiders quarterback Ken Stabler, he and Kirstyn were inquisitive.They used their full range of contacts and money on doctors, tests, medications and advice, all in hopes of slowing the effects. Hairston tried diets and hyperbaric chambers. The more he felt his mind slip, the more he exercised his body. The more he worried about time, the more things he crammed into whatever time he had left.In November 2017, Hairston emailed me a photograph of him and his son with Goliath, an aging and elusive desert bighorn sheep they hunted on a tag purchased at auction for $235,000. That bid was a part of the article published months earlier.“He is the new CA State Record Ram, 12 years old and as big as everyone who hunted him previously thought he was,” Hairston wrote. “Enclosed are photos of my Cash and I. It was such an amazing experience to share with my son.”Less than a year later, his suicide shocked family and friends, admiring strangers and loyal customers. It did not surprise Kirstyn, who had watched the decline close up.“We were really good at hiding it,” she said.The couple’s suspicions were right. Hairston had C.T.E.Bennet Omalu, a clinical professor at  U.C. Davis, made the diagnosis at his lab in Stockton. The results, part of a 44-page autopsy, had not previously been revealed publicly.“He has C.T.E., there is no question about it,” Omalu said in an interview, describing the buildup of abnormal and cell-strangling tau proteins he found across most regions of Hairston’s brain. “Those are the telltale signs, undeniably. This was almost a replica of Mike Webster’s brain.”Omalu discovered the disease in Webster, a Hall of Fame lineman who played for the Pittsburgh Steelers and who died in 2002 at age 50. That diagnosis connected C.T.E. to football in the national consciousness, and garnered Omalu a measure of fame. He was played by Will Smith in the 2015 movie “Concussion.”A malady formerly attached to “punch drunk” boxers, C.T.E. has now been found posthumously in more than 200 former football players, including more than 100 who played in the N.F.L., plus an array of athletes in sports ranging from hockey to soccer, rodeo to BMX. Much of the research about the condition has centered on brain injuries in the military.Scientists are on the verge of being able to confidently diagnose C.T.E. in the living. It promises to be a game-changer, leading to all sorts of complex ethical questions in sports.When a football star receives a C.T.E. diagnosis, for example, who will decide whether he should stop playing? Will high schools, colleges and professional teams have an obligation to test and reveal the results? Will athletes in all sports, at all ages, have the option to be tested?Hairston embodied some of that coming anxiety. During news media interviews in recent years, he sometimes mentioned offhandedly that he thought he had C.T.E. The conversations always moved on quickly.Even those who hunted with him regularly said they did not see cause for concern. Paul Bride, an outdoors photographer who worked for KUIU, accompanied Hairston on all his expeditions.“I saw him on his best days, in the best place he could be — the mountains,” Bride said.In hindsight, though, his friends said maybe Hairston had become more forgetful, a bit less predictable. None of those close to him were alarmed enough to worry that he might end his life. He had it all.Privately, though, the Hairstons struggled to hold it together. Jason Hairston routinely broke down and cried, Kirstyn said, scared of where his brain was headed. When a scan revealed deterioration in the frontal lobe that had not been present a year earlier, she said, Hairston made her promise she would never make him have another test, because he did not want to know the results.A slow decline over the past decade, she said, sped suddenly into a drop.“The last 18 months, he wasn’t there,” she said, sitting in the living room of the family home. “It was like a switch flipped. He was so different. We were going from one crisis to another. I felt like I was drowning.”Impulsivity spiked through flashes of infidelity and alcohol abuse. (He had been in alcohol rehabilitation about 10 years earlier, Kirstyn Hairston said.) Hairston showed unfamiliar anger — toward the children, the family pets, other drivers on the road. He sometimes fell to his knees with headaches, complaining of ice picks to his brain. He dropped into dark periods of depression, his wife said, tinged with fear of being alone. “I knew it was C.T.E.,” Kirstyn said. “I read everything I could. This was such typical behavior for C.T.E.”She cried as she delved into details.“He said, ‘If you leave me, I’ll be dead in three months,’” she said. “And I said, ‘You’ll be dead in a week.’ But I needed him for the kids. And I know he would have stayed for me.”The two were apart for most of Hairston’s last month. He went on two hunts. Kirstyn was invited to New York with friends, a rare time away. They crossed paths at the Sacramento airport. He was on his way home. She was on her way out. He took the children. “He said: ‘You think I can’t take care of our kids for three nights? I’m good,’” Kirstyn said. “I said, ‘O.K.’ You always want it to work out.”They shared a long embrace, then spoke on the phone the next evening, discussing KUIU. (Kirstyn worked alongside her husband and remains the chairwoman and majority owner.) Jason ordered pizza for the children. The couple laughed at the role reversal, she said. Usually she was the one at home with them.She was at dinner in New York two hours later when her son called, saying that Jason was behaving oddly. She asked to talk to him. Her husband held the phone to his ear but said nothing. He hung up.Kirstyn Hairston called her parents, who lived a few blocks away, to ask them to rush to the house.When she called her son again, the gun had already gone off.The autopsy found a blood-alcohol level of 0.22 percent, two to three times the typical limit for drunken driving. His system also contained sertraline and trazodone, prescription medications commonly used to combat depression and anxiety.Kirstyn Hairston had a feeling the day would come. But not so soon.“I thought I had another five years,” she said through tears. “I really did.”But she believed that if Hairston ever took his life, he would shoot himself in the chest to preserve his brain for examination, as Dave Duerson did in 2011 (at age 50) and as Junior Seau did in 2013 (at 43). Both posthumously received diagnoses of C.T.E. Still, Omalu said there was plenty of Hairston’s brain tissue to study. The answer he provided — the positive diagnosis of the C.T.E. that the Hairstons long presumed — brought some measure of relief.“I’m not surprised Jason killed himself,” Kirstyn Hairston said. “I’m surprised he did it with our kids in the house. I’m surprised he did it here. But would you want to live if you knew you were losing your mind? Especially being really young and really healthy?”She let the questions linger, unanswered. The house went quiet.If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.John Branch is a sports reporter. He won the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for feature writing for “Snow Fall,” a story about a deadly avalanche in Washington State, and was also a finalist for the prize in 2012.  @JohnBranchNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaQatar secured the biggest soccer prize in its history on Friday, beating the tournament favorite Japan, 3-1, in the Asian Cup final in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, an against-the-odds victory that prompted hope that the tiny Gulf nation will avoid humiliation at the World Cup it will host in three years.By winning the title, behind two spectacular first-half goals and a late penalty, Qatar secured victory in a tournament in which it overcame difficulties linked to longstanding political tensions in the region. The host country, the United Arab Emirates, is among a group of regional rivals that have broken off diplomatic relations with Qatar and are leading a blockade that made it difficult for Qatari fans, officials and even the team itself to get to the tournament.Qatar’s run to the final was unexpected. The national team is not considered among the region’s heavyweights, and it has never qualified for the World Cup. But it swept its rivals in the U.A.E., thanks largely to the tournament’s top scorer, Almoez Ali, whose overhead strike that opened the scoring on Friday at the Zayed Sports City stadium pushed his tournament-record tally to nine goals.What a peach of a goal by Almoez Ali #AsianCup2019 #JPNvQAT #قطر_اليابان pic.twitter.com/QXw5MXjR9DAbdul Aziz Hatem gave Qatar a 2-0 first-half lead with a long-range strike before Japan, a four-time champion that had never lost a final, threatened to rally with Takumi Minamino’s goal with 20 minutes to go. Qatar made certain of the victory with Akram Ali’s 83rd-minute penalty, which was awarded after Japan defender Maya Yoshida was called for a handball after a video review.The buildup to the game had been overshadowed by an inquiry into allegations that Qatar’s squad included two ineligible players, including Ali, a Sudan-born striker. The inquiry was prompted by a complaint by the United Arab Emirates, which was humiliated, 4-0, in front its own fans by Qatar in Tuesday’s semifinal.The Asian Football Confederation cleared Qatar hours before the final.Qatar’s presence in the U.A.E. proved to be a magnet for controversy. Its players were pelted with shoes and other objects thrown from the Emirati crowd in their semifinal victory, and they endured other difficulties linked to the political dispute throughout the event.There are no direct flights from Doha to Abu Dhabi, so the team had to fly through Oman on its way to the event, and Qatari fans — unable to travel to the Emirates without permission — were largely absent at the team’s matches.Qatar was not without support. A small group of lively fans led by a contingent of Omanis cheered for the team, joining a Korean woman dressed in a silk dress in the colors of Qatar’s flag who had followed the team through its seven-match run.Qatar’s next test will be much more difficult: In June, it will compete as a guest team in South America’s continental championship, the Copa América. Brazil, an eight-time champion, will host the event. Qatar is in a group with Argentina, Colombia and Paraguay.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Edmund LeeAmazon is coming to New York — to grab a piece of the Yankees sports network.Jeff Bezos’s tech giant has teamed up with the storied baseball organization in an effort to buy the YES Network from its majority owner, 21st Century Fox, according to two people close to negotiations who declined to be identified because the deal wasn’t yet official. If it goes forward in its current form, the deal is expected to take a few months to close.The Yankees will become the largest shareholder in the channel, a regional sports-focused network serving the New York metropolitan area that has been valued at just under $3.5 billion, the people said. That’s less than the approximately $4 billion it was worth five years ago, when 21st Century Fox increased its stake to 80 percent.Joining the deal are Sinclair Broadcasting, Redbird Capital, the Blackstone Group and others.The YES network was borne out of a partnership struck in 1999 between the Yankees and the Nets basketball franchise. The Yankees, whose business operation has been led by Randy L. Levine, its president since 2000, formally took over the project in 2004 and sold a 49 percent stake to Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox in 2012. A second deal, in 2014, gave the Murdoch company control of the company and left the Yankees with a 20 percent stake.The Walt Disney Company, the new owner of most 21st Century Fox assets, is managing the current deal as part of its plan to sell YES along with 21 other regional sports networks. The sell-off of those properties was a condition of the Justice Department’s approval of Disney’s $71.3 billion acquisition of the 21st Century Fox assets last summer.The companies involved in the deal declined to comment on Friday.Media rights to sports franchises are incredibly lucrative, but their value on traditional cable systems has waned as fewer people are willing to pay for traditional TV. A large part of the upside in sports rights now comes from streaming. For Amazon, owning a piece of YES could be a boon to its Prime program (which costs $119 a year), especially if that membership included access to those games. That, in turn, could add more revenue, as Prime members tend to buy more on Amazon than casual online shoppers.Amazon’s motivation becomes clearer when considering the fact that growth in the number of Amazon Prime members in the United States has slowed recently. It hit 97 million members last year, up from about 90 million in 2017, according to an estimate from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners.Amazon already streams “Thursday Night Football” on Prime, for which it had paid $50 million for one N.F.L. season. The company renewed that agreement in April for two more years in a deal worth $130 million, a 30 percent increase.With the rise of streaming, regional sports networks have found themselves in a tricky position. They are effectively the middlemen of sports rights; they get money from cable and satellite companies to carry the networks, but they, in turn, have to pay sports leagues for the rights to broadcast the games. Lately, cable and satellite companies have tried to pay less to carry these networks, given the decline in subscribers — but the sports teams are set to receive contractual rate increases every year.Unlike broadcast rights, which are controlled by the teams, local streaming rights are controlled by Major League Baseball. YES, and other regional sports networks, has the rights to show games online through the 2019 season, but how those rights will be controlled going forward is unclear. That could dampen the long-term value of regional sports networks. YES, however, could benefit from the fact that it is partly owned by the Yankees. M.L.B. has been trying to extract more lucrative terms from internet and broadcast companies for streaming, like the N.F.L. does, and it could end up granting those rights to the clubs themselves to help stoke new deals.Disney, along with AT&T and NBCUniversal, plans an aggressive move into streaming by the end of this year. Its deal for most of 21st Century Fox was a keystone to that plan. Fox’s regional sports networks would have become the “perfect complement” to Disney’s ESPN, the company’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger, said when announcing the deal in December 2017. But the Justice Department disagreed, and the two companies did not challenge the condition on the merger imposed by the government. Disney already has a sports streaming app called ESPN+ that has more than two million subscribers and will become an integral part of the company’s larger streaming strategy.Disney’s acquisition has not formally closed yet, and the company has 90 days after the merger is official to sell the sports channels. The company already has approval from shareholders and regulatory bodies in the regions in which it operates.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard GoldsteinBob Friend, who learned how to pitch on lowly Pittsburgh Pirate teams of the early 1950s, then became one of the National League’s finest right-handers and an anchor of the team that stunned the Yankees in the thrilling 1960 World Series, was found dead on Sunday at his home in O’Hara Township, Pa., a suburb of Pittsburgh. He was 88.His death was announced by the Pirates. Friend’s son, Bob, told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that Friend had died of a “cardiac event” in his sleep.Friend won 197 games in his 16 major league seasons. But he lost 230 games, mostly for teams that struggled after Branch Rickey, the Pirates’ general manager, embarked on a rebuilding period.Friend had fine control and was exceptionally durable: He never had a sore arm and was never on the disabled list. He was the ace of a Pirates pitching staff that also featured his fellow right-handed starter Vern Law and the reliever Roy Face.Friend had his first winning season in 1955, his fifth year with the Pirates, when he altered his windup so he could hide the ball and his grip from batters until the last possible moment. The Pirates finished in last place that season, but Friend went 14-9 and became the first pitcher to lead the N.L. in earned run average on a basement team when he posted a 2.83 mark.Friend led the league in innings pitched twice, totaling almost 600 innings through 1956 and 1957, and led the N.L. in games started each season from 1956 to 1958. His best season came in 1958, when he had a 22-14 record, tying the Milwaukee Braves’ Warren Spahn for the league lead in wins. He was an All-Star in 1956, 1958 and 1960.“I had a real good sinker that carried me through most of the prime of my career,” Friend recalled in an interview with Clifton Parker for the Society for American Baseball Research. “I had also had a hard curve and a fair off-speed pitch, but it was the sinker more than anything else.”“I was able to pitch every third or fourth day for more than 10 years and never miss starts,” he said.Friend went 18-12 in the 1960 regular season while Law was 20-7. But coming off a heavy workload in September, Friend pitched poorly in the World Series against the Yankees.Friend started Game 2, but was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the bottom of the fourth inning after yielding three runs in a 16-3 trouncing by the Yankees; he earned the loss. (The Yankees outscored the Pirates 55-27 in the Series.)He was the starter again in Game 6, giving up five runs in two innings as the Yankees went on to even the Series. In Game 7 at Forbes Field, Friend relieved at the start of the ninth inning but left after yielding a pair of singles. The Yankees scored twice to tie the game, setting the stage for Bill Mazeroski’s bases-empty ninth-inning home run off Ralph Terry. Pittsburgh’s wild 10-9 victory gave the Pirates their first World Series championship in 35 years.Robert Bartmess Friend was born on Nov. 24, 1930, in Lafayette, Ind., and grew up in West Lafayette, the home of Purdue University. Friend’s father conducted local band concerts, and Bob began taking piano lessons as a child with thoughts of becoming a concert pianist.But he was a baseball and football star at West Lafayette High School and, while a freshman at Purdue, was signed by the Pirates’ organization before the 1950 season.After a year in the minors, Friend joined the Pirates in 1951. They finished in seventh place that year and in last place during the next four seasons under Rickey, who took over as general manager in Pittsburgh in 1950 and hoped to duplicate the success he had had building the Brooklyn Dodger teams that would dominate the N.L. for much of the 1950s.“I simply wasn’t ready to pitch in the major leagues, and for four years it was a terrible struggle,” Friend told The New York Times after he was traded to the Yankees in 1966.Rickey’s signings and the deals made by Joe L. Brown, who succeeded him as general manager in the mid-1950s, eventually built a solid lineup and pitching staff. The 1960 Pirates featured Roberto Clemente in right field, Bill Virdon in center, Dick Groat at shortstop and Mazeroski at second base, complementing the pitching of Friend, Law, Harvey Haddix, Vinegar Bend Mizell and Face.Friend became a Yankee before the 1966 season. He posted a 1-4 record before they sold him to the Mets in June. He went 5-8 for them to close out his career.A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018He pitched 3,611 innings, struck out 1,734 batters, threw 36 shutouts and had a career earned run average of 3.58.Friend was active in the major league players’ union, serving as the Pirates’ player representative and the N.L. player representative in negotiations with the club owners. He attended Purdue during off-seasons and received a bachelor’s degree in economics in 1957.After leaving baseball, Friend remained in the Pittsburgh area. Running as a Republican, he served as the Allegheny County controller from 1967 to 1975, and he was a three-time delegate to the Republican National Convention. He was later an insurance broker.Friend had a passion for golf and played recreationally at leading courses in the United States and Scotland, attaining a notably low 6 handicap. His son, Bob, played on the PGA Tour and other circuits.In addition to his son, Robert Charles Friend, Friend’s survivors include his wife, Patricia (Koval) Friend; his daughter, Missy Alexander; five grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.Over the years, the Pirates’ 1960 World Series victory has been celebrated by fans gathering in October at a remnant of a wall from Forbes Field, which was demolished in 1971, to hear the rebroadcast of Game 7.Friend, who attended many of the annual commemorations, was hailed as a special guest in 2014.“It was a magic season for all of us,” The Post-Gazette quoted him as saying. “The team had suffered a long time.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsJeffrey Hart, a defiant defender of the Western literary canon and a profusely credentialed but contrarian conservative who bolted the Republican Party to support John Kerry and Barack Obama for president, died on Sunday in Fairlee, Vt. He was 88.The cause was complications of dementia, his wife, Nancy Hart, said.Professor Hart, who taught English literature at Dartmouth for three decades, drafted speeches for Ronald Reagan and Richard M. Nixon when they were presidential candidates; wrote copiously for William F. Buckley Jr.’s National Review, where he was also a senior editor; and was the author of books and a syndicated column.He was also what Christopher Buckley, William’s son, called a Pied Piper for The Dartmouth Review, the acerbic, decidedly conservative, often inflammatory journal (not affiliated with the university) founded in Professor Hart’s living room in 1980 by four students, including his son, Ben. The Review became a proving ground for such vocal conservatives as the author Dinesh D’Souza and the talk-show host Laura Ingraham.“Jeff Hart was one of the most influential conservative writers for approaching half a century,” Jack Fowler, the vice president of National Review, said in an email.Professor Hart defected to the Democrats largely because of the war in Iraq, which he branded as “the greatest strategic blunder in American history.”Claims by the Bush administration that the Iraqis were stockpiling weapons of mass destruction proved to be “dishonest,” he said, and without a strongman like Saddam Hussein, rivalry between religious sects rendered the region ungovernable.Professor Hart was an iconoclastic conservative — some would say a political apostate — who supported stem cell research and criticized the Republican platform on the environment. He considered the crusade to reverse the Supreme Court’s decision to legalize abortion as impractical. “It is a very peculiar kind of conservatism that values life only in utero,” he said.Professor Hart liked to flaunt his nonconformity, commuting to campus in a gas-guzzling Cadillac limousine that occupied two parking spaces; sporting an ankle-length raccoon coat at campus football games; coupling a meerschaum pipe with lumberjack boots and a Budweiser tie; seeking to restore the school’s American Indian symbol (Dartmouth was chartered in part to educate children of Indian tribes); and wearing mischievously provocative political buttons from his collection, like one that exhorted, “Soak the Poor.”When his nomination to the National Council on the Humanities was briefly jeopardized in the Senate because of his controversial remarks, Professor Hart insisted that “no evidence exists as regards my academic record that I harbor any prejudice against minorities or women.”He did not duck controversy, though. He said he had no objection to integrating black studies into college curriculums but balked at establishing separate departments in that field.In a magazine review, he wrote that “liberal rote anathema on ‘racism’ is in effect a poisonous assault upon Western self-preference.” And in a 1997 interview, he described the end of apartheid in South Africa as a tribal transformation. “You have got a black tribe running the place with probably foreseeable results,” he said.Fellow conservatives attributed his defection to Mr. Obama to Professor Hart’s defeat in philosophical conflicts within the movement.But Professor Hart replied that President George W. Bush had been guilty of a radical populism that defied the spirit of Edmund Burke’s classic 18th-century conservatism.“The opinion we are getting from so-called conservatives today is not fact-based,” he told The Dartmouth Review in 2008. “It’s a projection of their wishes.”Jeffrey Peter Hart was born on Feb. 24, 1930, in Brooklyn to Clifford and Gladys (Reith) Hart. His mother was a musician, his father an architect.After graduating from Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, he enrolled at Dartmouth College planning to continue to its medical school. But within two years he found that he was more engaged by literature and so dropped out, returning to New York to work for a book publisher.After a year he enrolled in Columbia University, where he studied literature under Lionel Trilling, Mark Van Doren and Jacques Barzun, and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 1952.Mr. Hart enlisted in the Navy during the Korean War and served in Naval Intelligence before returning to Columbia to earn a doctorate in 17th- and 18th-century English literature. He soon began writing book reviews for National Review — a political affiliation that Trilling suggested might jeopardize his prospects for tenure at Columbia.That concern was mooted when he was recruited by Dartmouth in 1963. He taught there until his retirement in 1993.Professor Hart’s books include “When the Going Was Good! American Life in the Fifties” (1982); “Smiling Through the Cultural Catastrophe: Toward the Revival of Higher Education” (2001); and “The Making of the American Conservative Mind: National Review and its Times” (2005).His marriage to Stephanie Woods in 1953 ended in divorce in 1981. In addition to their son Benjamin, he is survived by their children, Matthew and Emily Hart and Rosemary Carroll; six grandchildren; and his wife, Nancy Killheffer, whom he married in 1984.Born into the Episcopal Church, he converted to Catholicism, explaining his decision by remarking, as his son Ben recalled, “If you’re going to be a Christian, you might as well be on the A team, not the B or C team.”Professor Hart wasn’t doctrinaire. He was fiercely anti-Communist, but as a child of the New Deal he believed in government’s responsibility to provide regulation and a safety net.He didn’t mince words, even when skewering fellow conservatives. By 2006, he was flatly proclaiming George W. Bush the worst American president. He demeaned Senator John McCain’s foreign policy credentials (“He bombed North Vietnam, and the only North Vietnamese he saw was when he was in prison; I don’t see that as, you know, war experience”) and pronounced Sarah Palin, Mr. McCain’s running mate in 2008, “extremely ignorant” and a “religious crackpot.”In that election, Professor Hart voted for Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain’s Democratic opponent, and supported him again in 2012. In 2004, opposing Mr. Bush’s re-election, he had voted for the Democratic challenger, Mr. Kerry. (He was too ill to vote in 2016.)Professor Hart explained his personal politics in an interview with the cultural critic James Panero in 2006 in the Dartmouth Alumni Magazine.“My conservatism is aristocratic in spirit, anti-populist and rooted in the Northeast,” he said. “It is Burke brought up-to-date. A ‘social conservative’ in my view is not a moral authoritarian Evangelical who wants to push people around, but an American gentleman, conservative in a social sense. He has gone to a good school, maybe shops at J. Press, maybe plays tennis or golf, and drinks either Bombay or Beefeater martinis, or maybe Dewar’s on the rocks, or both.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump has worked hard to stem and suppress the various investigations surrounding him, leaving him open to accusations of obstruction of justice, according to a New York Times report published this week. He has also publicly attacked the investigation more than 1,100 times since he took office, The Times found. (When the article came out, Trump remained true to form: He savaged it.)Stephen Colbert highlighted one part of the report, which points out that Trump’s behavior has slowly come to feel like the norm for many Americans. Colbert urged his viewers not to become inured to the president’s behavior.“Please don’t do that! Please don’t lose track! I just want to remind you that that mildly nauseous feeling you have is because for the last two years, Donald Trump has been spinning you in a tumble-dryer full of turd.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“The president attacking his Justice Department, trusting Putin over his own intelligence community, calling the F.B.I. a bunch of corrupt, deep-state coup plotters is not normal. It is strange. It’s like how Jack in the Box sells tacos for some reason? It may not be illegal, but it certainly violates something sacred.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“Speaking of the Russia investigation, Donald Trump would prefer that we not speak of it. In fact, he has tried very hard to make all investigations of him vanish faster than a cheeseburger at bedtime.” — STEPHEN COLBERTTrevor Noah followed up on the recent discovery, through a court filing, that the Sackler family was much more directly involved in covering up the addictive qualities of OxyContin than had been previously known. The family is widely known for its philanthropy, but it has also played a major role in the scourge of opioid abuse that suffused America over the past quarter-century.Purdue Pharma, the Sacklers’ company, aggressively marketed the drug to doctors, sometimes with the help of exotic dancers. Noah commented on one pharmaceutical executive and former stripper who allegedly bribed and engaged in sexual acts with doctors she was trying to persuade to prescribe more opioids.“That’s right, this drug company didn’t just bribe doctors to push opioids; they sent strippers to bribe the doctors. And let me just say, when a stripper starts paying you, something fishy is going on. That just doesn’t make sense, it doesn’t make sense. It’s like a crackhead begging to give you $5. ‘Hey, brother, you look like you could use some help. Come on, man, take it!’” — TREVOR NOAH“This one family made $4 billion by allegedly lying about how addictive opioids are. That is straight-up evil. If your product is addictive, you have to be upfront about it. I mean, that’s why we always start our show with a disclaimer: ‘Do not consume more than three episodes of “The Daily Show” if you are addicted to Africans with dimples.’ All right? I could be a billionaire if I didn’t show that warning. I have to do that.” — TREVOR NOAHSeth Meyers pointed to a new argument that’s becoming popular on Fox News: that perhaps Trump shouldn’t declare a national emergency to build the border wall (a move that could well be struck down by federal courts anyway, experts believe) because then a future Democratic president might invoke emergency powers to fight climate change.It’s clear which situation Meyers thinks would be the real emergency.“That’s what you’re worried about? That’s like saying, ‘I would give this homeless guy a dollar, but you know he’s just going to use it to print out his résumé and find a job.’” — SETH MEYERSMeyers played a clip of Trump trying to persuade the Fox News host Chris Wallace that the worsening of California forest fires isn’t due to climate change, but lack of forest maintenance. The president claimed that one governor had told him raking the leaves below trees would help solve the problem. (He wouldn’t name the governor.)“Why won’t you say which state it was? Seems to me, if a governor figured out how to stop forest fires with a rake, they’d want their name out there. Is it because they’re from Neva-happen-da?” — SETH MEYERSThen Meyers rolled tape of a Trump rally at which the president warned that proponents of the Green New Deal wanted to prevent people from owning cows.“Man, Trump is getting really desperate. In two years, he’s gone from ‘they’re going to take your guns away’ to ‘they’re going to take your cows away.’ No one is outlawing cows. You know what we call that? Fake moos.” — SETH MEYERS“After a guy in Dallas finished last place in his fantasy football league — did you hear about this? — he had to go to a dog park covered in peanut butter. His friends laughed, then got concerned when he went back again the next day.” — JIMMY FALLON“I read about a vegan woman who recently got married and banned all meat eaters from her wedding. Then her friends and family were like, ‘Oh, no, we’re not allowed at your vegan wedding? Oh, bummer.’” — JIMMY FALLON“The Bernie Sanders campaign has announced that in the first 12 hours after launching his presidential bid, Sanders raised more than $4 million in donations, which is great for Sanders. Great for Sanders, but terrible for the guy behind him at Coinstar.” — SETH MEYERSIn the “Late Show” cold open, Kermit the Frog became a symbol of the Green New Deal. He promised he wouldn’t kill all the cows. (Maybe.)Noah asked Senator Kamala Harris if she was ready for the frivolity that would inevitably greet her on the presidential campaign trail.“Desus & Mero,” the irreverent late-night show hosted by two young, Bronx-born comics, will debut on Showtime on Thursday in its new weekly slot. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will be their first guest.Jussie Smollet, the “Empire” star, is now facing a felony charge of falsely reporting a crime, after claiming to have been the victim of a hate crime.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTeenagers in The TimesBy The Learning NetworkWelcome to the first 2019 edition of Teenagers in The Times. This roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com appears on the first Thursday of each month during the school year.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________EducationAnd the Band Played Until Someone ComplainedFor decades, it was tradition at Columbia University for the marching band to storm the library the night before finals. It was a raucous joke until the administration cut the band’s funding.Now Kids Are Skipping School to Serenade Their TeachersA Massachusetts middle school group skipped school to surprise their choir director and his fiancé with a rendition of “All You Need Is Love.”‘I Love My Skin!’ Why Black Parents Are Turning to Afrocentric SchoolsWhile New York City schools are deeply segregated, some black families are choosing an alternative to integration.Is the President Making Middle School Worse?“In Virginia, school bullying is up in regions that voted for Trump,” states this Opinion essay.After Report of 4 Girls Strip-Searched at School, Cuomo Calls for InquiryThe parents of the 12-year-olds say they were strip-searched at a middle school in Binghamton, N.Y., but the school district has disputed the account.50 Jesuits, Including Some From Top-Ranked N.Y. Catholic Schools, Are Named as AbusersIn some cases, the priests listed as having a history of sexual abuse passed through the schools in careers that spanned as many as 30 years.Blackface Video Has Elite New York Private School in an UproarStudents and parents are angered at administrators at Poly Prep Country Day School for the school’s reaction to a video of two students in blackface making racist gestures.43 Teens, 1 Adult: Los Angeles Teachers Describe a Typical Day in a Crowded ClassroomWe asked some of the more than 30,000 teachers who went on strike last week to tell us how they teach their largest classes.500,000 Students Are Affected by the L.A. Teachers Strike. Most Are Latino.Even before the walkout, these students suffered from years of limited funding; California spends less per pupil than the national average.When College Rapists GraduateThis Opinion essay states, “If they’re not held accountable at school, what’s to stop them from becoming the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story once they enter the work force?”Who’s to Blame for Fast Food on Campus? YouThere’s a simple reason so many colleges have chain restaurants: Students want them.No Tuition, but You Pay a Percentage of Your Income (if You Find a Job)Income Sharing Agreements are gaining the attention of higher education and Wall Street. One early success story is getting a boost from venture capital.Students in Rural America Ask, ‘What Is a University Without a History Major?’Financial and enrollment woes at schools like the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point have led to a scramble for fixes, such as dropping longstanding liberal arts degrees.The Hard Part of Computer Science? Getting Into ClassStudent demand for computer science courses is outstripping the supply of professors, creating a student divide of computing haves and have-nots.Duke University Apologizes Over Professor’s Email Asking Chinese Students to Speak EnglishThe university is conducting an internal review after a professor sent an email cautioning international students from speaking Chinese on campus._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessFreshman in College, Freshman in the Capitol: West Virginia’s 19-Year-Old LawmakerCaleb Hanna, one of the youngest state legislators in the country, is a black man raised in a white family who represents a predominantly white district in West Virginia.Trump Administration to Nearly Double Size of Detention Center for Migrant TeenagersThe federal government is closing a controversial tent city for migrant children in Texas. But officials are now moving to nearly double the capacity of a similar facility in Florida.Inquiry Into Migrant Shelters Poses Dilemma: What Happens to the Children?Federal officials face a balancing act as they investigate alleged wrongdoing at Southwest Key, the largest provider in an overburdened shelter system.The Other Talk“You are going to have to work 10 times harder.” This is how my father prepared me for being black in America.Fuller Picture Emerges of Viral Video of Native American Man and Catholic StudentsA convergence of racial and religious groups set the stage for the viral moment. “I stepped in between to pray,” Nathan Phillips said on Sunday.Viral Video Shows Boys in ‘Make America Great Again’ Hats Surrounding Native ElderStudents from Covington Catholic High School in Kentucky appeared to surround the elder, Nathan Phillips, outside the Lincoln Memorial. The high school has condemned the students’ actions.Never Tweet“The controversy over the Covington students shows why American journalism should disengage from Twitter,” argues this Opinion essay.Covington and the Pundit Apocalypse“Our hasty condemnation of these teenagers reveals the cold truth about hot takes,” states this Opinion essay.The Covington ScissorThe writer of this Opinion essay states, “Welcome to another controversy algorithmically designed to tear America apart.”How We Destroy Lives TodayThis Opinion essay asks, “Will the Covington Catholic High School fiasco change social media?”‘The Shutdown Makes Me Nervous’: Young People Caught Up in Impasse“Now in its fourth week, the shutdown’s effects have cascaded across generations, from children worried about their parents to college students unable to pay tuition.14-Year-Old Is Charged With Murder After Egg Prank and Fatal CrashA 14-year-old boy driving a sport utility vehicle crashed into a truck and killed a woman in Houston on Tuesday, the authorities said.Trump Administration to Nearly Double Size of Detention Center for Migrant TeenagersThe federal government is closing a controversial tent city for migrant children in Texas. But officials are now moving to nearly double the capacity of a similar facility in Florida.Inquiry Into Migrant Shelters Poses Dilemma: What Happens to the Children?Federal officials face a balancing act as they investigate alleged wrongdoing at Southwest Key, the largest provider in an overburdened shelter system.Jayme Closs, Who Saved Herself From a Kidnapper, Will Get $25,000 in Reward MoneyThe 13-year-old, whose parents were killed when she was abducted, will receive the money from the food company where her parents worked for nearly three decades.Jayme Closs, Missing Wisconsin Girl, Is Found; Man Is Accused in KidnappingJake T. Patterson, 21, was held pending murder and kidnapping charges, the authorities said. Jayme, 13, had vanished when her parents were fatally shot in a rural Wisconsin town.Teenagers Emerge as a Force in Climate Protests Across EuropeTens of thousands of students are skipping school to take part in a growing movement.Saudi Teenager Who Fled Family Embraces All Things Canadian. (O.K., Maybe Not Winter.)Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun engineered an escape to freedom. Now she has a simpler goal: “I want to do crazy things I’ve never done before.”Saudi Woman Who Fled Family Granted Asylum in CanadaRahaf Mohammed Alqunun, 18, had rallied support from a Bangkok hotel room to avoid being deported, saying she feared that her relatives might kill her.She Wanted to See Her Boyfriend. She May Have Been Beheaded for It.Days after a 16-year-old’s mutilated body was found in a small Indian town, the police arrested her father, who they believe arranged her killing.Teenager Captured With ISIS Fighters Is From Trinidad, Not the U.S., Officials SayA 16-year-old caught on the front lines in Syria had been taken by his mother to the battle zone when he was 12, his sister and American officials said.American Boy, 16, Caught Fighting for ISIS in Syria, Militia SaysThe teenager, whose capture was announced by the Syrian Democratic Forces, would be the only American minor apprehended fighting on behalf of the Islamic State on the battlefield.‘The Taliban Made Me Fight’: What to Do With Child Recruits After They Serve Time?Afghan children as young as 8 have been imprisoned after being caught preparing suicide attacks. Officials worry about what to do when they grow up.Israeli Teenagers Are Suspected in Deadly Stoning of a Palestinian WomanFive youths are being investigated for “grave terrorism offenses, including murder,” over the death of Aisha Rabi on a West Bank road.China Using Taped Confessions to Intimidate Young Communists, Students SayThe authorities appear to be escalating efforts to crush a student-led campaign for workers’ rights that has evaded Beijing’s control.Poland Cracks Down on Escape Rooms After Deadly FireFive 15-year-old girls died in a locked room after a building that lacked basic safety measures caught fire. The operator faces criminal charges.A Christian Youth Group Turned Me JewishThis Opinion essay writer states, “As a teenager, crushes were my religion. I obsessed over boys from a born-again Christian youth group like a fanatic, and I found peace in this faith.”My Relationship Guru Is a 14-Year-Old Girl“As a queer, closeted teenager, I had to learn about romance from the sidelines. A decade later, I’m still struggling to get in the game,” writes Garrett Schlichte in a Modern Love essay._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsU.S. Figure Skating Championships: Alysa Liu, 13, Becomes Youngest WinnerLiu stole the show with two triple axels and defeated the defending champion, Bradie Tennell, who fell during her free skate.‘When I Skate It Just Feels Free’Figure Skating in Harlem helps young women of color see themselves on ice.At 17, Amanda Anisimova Bucks the Odds and Knocks Off a SeedAnisimova beat 11th-seeded Aryna Sabalenka, 6-3, 6-2, at the Australian Open to reach the second week of a Grand Slam event for the first time.In Texas, the Land of Football, It’s Rugby to the RescueWhy rugby? Because its tackling techniques emphasize use of the shoulder, which increasingly appeals to football coaches leery of concussions. Even in Texas.In Alabama, a Girl’s High School Hoop Dreams Are RestoredU.S.A. Basketball sent Maori Davenport a check in error after she played for one of its national teams. Alabama officials ruled her ineligible. A judge ordered her back onto the court.White House Welcomes College Football Champions With Fast-Food BuffetA celebration of Clemson’s championship was catered by fast-food outlets like McDonald’s, Wendy’s and Domino’s, with officials blaming the government shutdown.Sorry, Canada: Parity Reshapes the World Junior ChampionshipCanada used to own the under-20 ice hockey world championships. But in recent years, Finland and the U.S. have won the event more often than the Canadians.F.D.A. Accuses Juul and Altria of Backing Off Plan to Stop Youth VapingCommissioner Scott Gottlieb says the terms of the new partnership between the two companies appear to undermine pledges they made to keep flavored nicotine pods off store shelves.Traditional Masculinity Can Hurt Boys, Say New A.P.A. GuidelinesMen die earlier than women and commit more acts of violence. But the American Psychological Association did not have a guide for working with males, in part because they were historically considered the norm.Coming Out as Trans Isn’t a Teenage FadThis Opinion essay contends, “Conservatives are inventing a 'syndrome' to undermine young people’s transitions.”When to Start With a Gynecologist?Cervical cancer screening starts at age 21. But there are reasons to start seeing a gynecologist earlier._________Arts, Media and CultureHe’s 16 Going On Stardom: Meet Broadway’s Next ‘Evan Hansen’Andrew Barth Feldman, a high school junior on Long Island, is an ardent theater fan who has been acting since he was 8. Now he’ll be leading the cast in his favorite show.Is a Film About a Transgender Dancer Too ‘Dangerous’ to Watch?That’s what trans activists say about the Netflix drama “Girl.” But the movie’s supporters say it’s something cisgender viewers need to see.After the ‘Surviving R. Kelly’ Documentary, #MeToo Has Finally Returned to Black Girls“Let’s keep it there,” say the writers of this Opinion essay, co-founders of a nonprofit that uses art to empower young people to end violence against girls and women.‘Pledge’ Review: Don’t Haze Me Because I’m DifferentThree nerdy college freshmen rush a creepy, off-campus fraternity in Daniel Robbins’s tight, twisty torture movie.‘The Kid Who Would Be King’ Review: Cult Director Waxes ArthurianJoe Cornish bestows Excalibur upon a boy who is fleeing bullies, and the legend comes alive, just when a divided country needs a hero.Revisiting Anne Frank’s Diary — ‘A Warm and Stirring Confession’In 1952, Meyer Levin reviewed “The Diary of a Young Girl” for the Book Review. Here’s an excerpt.Reframing Refugee Children’s StoriesIn “We Are Displaced,” the Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai gathers stories from girls around the world who, like her, have had to flee their homes.When the Grown-Ups Stumble, These Kids Take Matters Into Their Own HandsIn new novels by Brenda Woods, Dan Gemeinhart, Alicia D. Williams and more, young protagonists learn the hard way that adults don’t have all the answers.Growing Up in New York, Just Like Holden and Francie. Only With Basketball.The heroine of Dana Czapnick’s debut novel, “The Falconer,” feels most at home shooting hoops at her prep school gym.Buffy the Vampire Slayer Returns to High School in New Comic BooksBoom! Studios will reboot Buffy and friends with a new look at their pre-college days.Review: In ‘The Passage,’ the Bloodsuckers Are Vampire-AdjacentA new Fox series based on the best-selling novels by Justin Cronin pits a preteen girl against the vampirelike victims of biomedical experimentation.Spinning Into a Storm of Her Own MakingWatch part of a solo that Bianca Berman, 14, choreographed and will perform as part of Ellen Robbins’s “Dances by Very Young Choreographers.”_________AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasWASHINGTON — Chet Jechura was 12 years old when he first felt called to preach, but for years he put off ordination. He knew himself, and he knew the official rules of the United Methodist Church: Homosexuality was “incompatible with Christian teaching.” And so he left the denomination.Then four years ago, he discovered Foundry United Methodist, a church that has carved a different path. He could sing the hymns of his childhood, be fully supported as a gay man, and finally become a candidate for ordination.This week, a decision at a global conference for Methodists threatened to upend a lifetime of dreams, with the church voting to strengthen its ban on same-sex marriage and gay and lesbian clergy.At an impromptu prayer service on Wednesday, as Mr. Jechura helped serve communion, he broke out in sobs, his body convulsing, barely able to stand. The emptiness grew louder with every wail. Friends held him up, wrapping him in their arms.For several minutes, they stood there as he wept at the altar, draped in a rainbow stole.Across the country, progressive United Methodists are reeling from Tuesday night’s vote. As their conservative brethren celebrate, churches like Foundry are faced with difficult decisions.Next month, they may learn if they will be able to keep their property and assets, and if their gay and lesbian colleagues will be tossed out. Pastors and lay people are already debating if they should start a new denomination — or if, in a move perhaps more threatening to those who voted them out, they should refuse to leave.Nationwide, these high stakes are playing out in the blur of grief. The day after the vote, Foundry felt like it was in mourning. An assistant pastor made almost 50 calls to counsel and comfort parishioners. Neighbors from the Jewish Community Center came by with a box of tarts for the office, remembering how the pastors had brought them ice cream the day of the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting.“I was numb,” said the Rev. Ginger Gaines-Cirelli, Foundry’s pastor, her voice raw as she described the moments after the vote.Yet in the swirl of confusion, Foundry is also resolute. A schism may be on the horizon, but it has not happened yet, leaders point out. The new rules do not go into effect until January, and the Methodist judiciary must decide if parts of the new rule are constitutional.Shortly after the vote, Ms. Gaines-Cirelli joined a conference call with like-minded church leaders to start to plan their next steps. “We are not going anywhere,” she said in an interview. “If someone wants to come for me, for us, then bring it.”For decades, the stone church on 16th Street, a few blocks north of the White House, has been one of the most prominent religious institutions in Washington. The Clinton family called it home for years. It has also made religious rights for L.G.B.T. people core to its ministry. Foundry’s pastors have married same-sex couples and hired gay clergy. One retired minister surrendered his credentials in protest when a lesbian member’s ordination was blocked.Foundry was one of the first large churches to join a Methodist network that supports L.G.B.T. people, 30 years ago. Today, the church has more than 1,000 members, with most of its new growth coming from young people.Foundry may be at the vanguard, but it is among hundreds of Methodist churches that have believed that one day, their religious views about sexuality would prevail. Nearly two-thirds of American Methodists say homosexuality should be accepted. And United Methodist bishops had supported a plan at the conference that would have embraced L.G.B.T. clergy.For months, Foundry prepared for the looming vote. Last summer, the church dedicated a special altar in the narthex for people to pray. Progressive Methodist coalitions from around the country met at Foundry to organize in the fall.At the conference, on the floor of a former football stadium in St. Louis, Ms. Gaines-Cirelli juggled seven WhatsApp chat groups to coordinate strategy with advocates. Above in the stands, more than 35 Foundry members stood each day, singing hymns and holding strands of Tibetan-style, handmade rainbow prayer flags.But conservatives in the United States and Africa were equally fervent, arguing that a change in the teaching would oppose historical church teaching. They had spent decades preparing for this moment, and many of the conservative churches were far larger, and with far more financial means.“The debate cannot continue forever,” one of the main conservative groups, the Wesleyan Covenant Association, said in a statement after the vote. “We recognize irreconcilable differences exist.”After the vote, one of Foundry’s assistant pastors, the Rev. Will Ed Green, 31, slept for just an hour and half. He remembered being 6 in Hope, Ark., when he had watched his pastor break the bread for communion, and had told his mother, “I want to feed people like that.” But he was outed when he sought ordination, so he moved to Illinois, where bishops were more willing to receive queer candidates. Later, he was hired by Foundry.“You have people for whom the Methodist Church has become everything,” Mr. Green said. They say, “this church saved my life,” he said, “this church is where I found Jesus.”At the prayer service on Wednesday, as worshipers walked in from the night, Mr. Jechura urged them, “Be not afraid.” Together they read Scripture: The Lord will deliver you from the snare of the fowler. At the front of the sanctuary hung a tall orange banner that read, “Sacred Resistance.”April Young, 34, a lifelong United Methodist from a more conservative congregation in Texas, joined Foundry just two weeks ago. She twisted the ring on her finger as she sat in her pew, struggling to describe why she came to pray. “I just thought, if there is anything I can do, listen, anything … ” Her voice trailed off. “My church is really hurting.”Across the aisle sat Lenny Wrigley, 30, who grew up as a United Methodist but now goes to a Baptist church in Virginia. He will soon go to seminary to become a military chaplain, but has decided not to pursue Methodist ordination because he is openly gay. “This is not a time to be excluding people,” he said. “This church is seeing a decline.”Despite the risk, Mr. Jechura remains committed. In two years, he will graduate from seminary. “I am not going to allow the church to stand in the way of God’s call on my life,” he said. “I can do nothing else.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew KehThe organizing committee of FIFA announced Monday that it would recommend the use of video assistant referee technology at the Women’s World Cup this summer, bringing refereeing advances introduced at the men’s World Cup in Russia last year to soccer’s most important women’s championship for the first time. The decision, which is expected to be approved by the governing FIFA Council when it meets later this month in Miami, is a victory for women’s soccer players, coaches and fans who have highlighted gender equality issues in the international game.The technology, known by the acronym V.A.R., allows the on-field referee to consult with a colleague viewing video replays to help confirm, or overturn, close calls in a narrow set of instances. It was fully implemented for the first time at a major FIFA tournament last summer at the men’s World Cup, where FIFA hailed its introduction as a rousing success.This year, video replay will be used to assist match officials at the World Cup. Here’s what they hope to get right, and what could go wrong.But as the 2019 Women’s World Cup came into view, FIFA repeatedly declined to confirm whether V.A.R. would be at that competition as well, turning the issue into another flash point — alongside artificial turf fields and unequal compensation and bonuses — in the broader gender equity debate in soccer.On the V.A.R. point, at least, the debate seems finally to be settled.Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA, said last weekend that he supported the use of the technology at the women’s event in June, stating that it was proving effective at discouraging the type of diving and playacting that often plague major soccer tournaments.“Players now know that it’s not just sufficient to have a look where is the referee, so if he doesn’t see me I can simulate, because he or she will be caught,” Infantino said, according to The Associated Press. “That’s why V.A.R. automatically helps the fight against simulation and diving in a very efficient way.”Referees for the Women’s World Cup began training with the video technology this winter at a series of seminars in Abu Dhabi and Doha. FIFA later said some had been introduced to the technology as early as 2016.Still, as this summer’s tournament in France approached, questions lingered about whether there would be enough time to get all of the untrained officials up to speed and comfortable with the protocols. FIFA on Monday said their progress had been satisfactory.“Based on the thorough work carried out over the past few months, FIFA is happy with the steps taken and the excellent job done by FIFA’s refereeing team and the female referees involved,” Zvonimir Boban, the deputy secretary general of FIFA, said in a statement. “We are confident about proposing the use of V.A.R. in France to the FIFA Council, as we are very positive about its implementation.”V.A.R. technology is quickly becoming an indispensable, if still sometimes controversial, presence at the top men’s competitions in the world. Many leagues and competitions — from Major League Soccer in the United States to Germany’s Bundesliga and England’s F.A. Cup — already use the system. European soccer officials announced in December that they would introduce it for the knockout rounds of this year’s Champions League, the world’s richest club competition.In a recent interview with The New York Times, United States Coach Jill Ellis said she felt it was “hugely important” that the use of V.A.R. in the women’s game kept pace with its spread on the men’s side.“First and foremost, we’ve got to fight for what’s going to help the game,” she said. “You can just see the benefit of it. It’s proven.”Becky Sauerbrunn, a longtime defender for the United States team, and a member of its 2015 Women’s World Cup champions, said that while the V.A.R. issue was far from the most pressing gender equality issue in international soccer, it symbolized the many little ways that FIFA can make the women’s game feel like an afterthought.For her, its use was just a matter of common sense.“For me it’s, why not?” Sauerbrunn said. “Why not give it to the women if you give it to the men?”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikWarren Wells, a former wide receiver who became one of the most feared deep threats of the vaunted Oakland Raiders of the late 1960s, but whose career ended after he served a season-long prison sentence, died on Thursday at a hospital in Beaumont, Tex. He was 76.His death, after a heart attack, was confirmed by his son, Gary Stewart.Wells joined the Raiders in 1967, during the waning years of the American Football League, when the team was a perennial playoff contender. Under Coach John Rauch and later John Madden, and with Daryle Lamonica and occasionally George Blanda at quarterback, the team was known for its long-bomb offense.Wells, who stood 6 feet 1 inch and weighed a little under 200 pounds, was a cornerstone of that offense, with soft hands, slick moves and breakaway speed. His presence on the field also helped free up other talented receivers, like the Hall of Famer Fred Biletnikoff.“It was fantastic to watch him play,” Biletnikoff was quoted as saying in a memorial to Wells on the Raiders’ website. “He has speed, he could run routes, he was so smooth, he could get on top of defensive backs so quick.”Wells helped the Raiders reach three straight A.F.L. title games, from 1967 through 1969, and the first American Football Conference championship game after the A.F.L. merged with the National Football League in 1970.During Wells’s four seasons with Oakland, he caught 156 passes for 3,634 yards and 42 touchdowns and was twice chosen for the Pro Bowl. His best season was 1969, when he led the A.F.L. in receiving yards (1,260), touchdowns (14) and yards per catch (an astonishing 26.8).Wells had numerous highlight-reel plays. One came when the Raiders were down by 6 points with seconds left in a game against the Jets in December 1970. Lamonica threw 33 yards to Wells, who was surrounded by three Jets defenders in the end zone. One defender tipped the ball, and Wells snagged it for a touchdown. The Raiders won, 14-13, after Blanda kicked the extra point with one second on the clock.But Wells’s success on the field became overshadowed by his problems off it. He was charged in a sexual assault case, pleaded guilty to aggravated assault and was placed on probation in 1969.After the 1970 season, he got into a fracas at a bar in Beaumont that violated his probation. He missed the 1971 season while serving a prison term for the probation violation, and though he tried to return in 1972, he was no longer in playing shape.“Warren just isn’t ready to play professional football at this time,” Madden, the Raiders’ coach, told reporters.Over the next few years, Wells was charged with drunken driving and disturbing the peace. He never played another professional game.Wells was born on Nov. 14, 1942, in Franklin, La., to Julia and Henry Wells and grew up in Beaumont. His mother was a domestic worker and his father was a mechanic. He went to Hebert High School in Beaumont and attended Texas Southern University before being picked by the Detroit Lions in the 12th round of the 1964 N.F.L. draft.Wells played in nine games for the Lions in 1964 and, after the season ended, was drafted into the Army. He spent two years serving in Alaska and joined the Raiders after his tour.In addition to his son, Gary, he is survived by a sister, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.Wells dealt with dementia and alcoholism for years after his professional career and was cared for by his son and other family members, including Wells’s sister-in-law, Consetta Wells; a nephew, Wyron Wells; and a niece, Raquel Wells-Joseph.Gary Wells said that his father finally gave up alcohol for good years ago. Wyron Wells said that Wells’s brain was being checked for signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease found in a number of former football players.In 1999 Wells told The Associated Press that he had to “look toward the future and quit looking back” in order to reclaim his life.“I need to forget about that period, what happened in Oakland, and get my life straight,” he said.Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNATIONALAn article on Monday about the influence of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in Washington referred imprecisely to Israel’s activities on the West Bank and a letter from Representative Jan Schakowsky. Israel had proposed demolishing Palestinian homes, not entire communities and had not conducted the demolition. Ms. Schakowsky was objecting to the demolition proposal.SPORTSAn article on Wednesday about Juventus Football Club misstated the given name of a Juventus player. He is Federico Bernardeschi, not Fernando.ARTSAn article on Wednesday about the indictment of the actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin in an alleged college admissions scandal misstated the name of a charity cited in the indictment. It is the Key Worldwide Foundation, not the Key World Foundation.•A picture caption with a film review on Wednesday about “Rezo” misidentified the film shown in the picture. It was a frame from “Tale of Tales,” not “Rezo.”OBITUARIESAn obituary on Wednesday about the drummer Hal Blaine, who played on countless hit records, misstated the given name of a guitarist who was one of his fellow studio musicians. He was Tommy Tedesco, not Tony.•An obituary on Feb. 25 about the opera singer Hilde Zadek referred incorrectly to the production of “Aida” in which she made her debut with the Vienna State Opera in 1947. It was sung in German, not Italian. The obituary also referred incorrectly to Stettin, where Ms. Zadek’s family moved in 1920. It was part of Germany at the time — not the German Empire, which ended when Kaiser Wilhelm II abdicated in 1918.•An obituary on March 1 about the composer, conductor and pianist André Previn misstated the year he and his fourth wife, Heather, divorced. It was 2002, not 1999.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy, Karen Crouse and Matthew FuttermanThey work just as hard as men for less pay.When they complain, they are told they need to generate as much money as men do if they want to get paid as much as men are paid. When they say that’s essentially impossible without more opportunities and promotion, they are told opportunity and promotion will happen once they start producing more money.This is the narrative at the heart of the gender discrimination lawsuit the United States women’s national soccer team filed on Friday against U.S. Soccer, but in nearly every sport, gender disparities in pay and working conditions are rampant.Coming just three months before the start of the Women’s World Cup, the litigation immediately became the central plotline for the event and brought to the fore an issue that has increasingly rankled the sports world.[Eight times women in sports fought for equality.]In golf last year, the world’s top-ranked woman earned as much as the 33rd-best man. The United States women’s hockey team expected to have a victory tour after winning gold at the Pyeongchang Olympics last year. It didn’t happen. The N.B.A. minimum salary of $1.35 million for a player with one year of experience is higher than the salary cap for an entire W.N.B.A. roster.“Unless the origin of the sport is anchored in women, like gymnastics or field hockey, I don’t think there’s a culture that starts with the premise: Women are going to be treated equally, or, we’re going to make up for the historical discrimination against women and make sure we’re going where we need to go,” said Donna Lopiano, a sports management consultant and former University of Texas athletics administrator, referring to both the national governing boards and to college sports.According to the national women’s team’s suit against U.S. Soccer, differing systems of compensation for the men’s and women’s teams have led to the women repeatedly earning less than their male counterparts, even though the women are defending champions and the men failed to qualify for the 2018 World Cup.Supporters of women’s sports praised the soccer team on Friday for taking a stand and trying to force the powers that be to address its complaints.“College sports has a great statute called Title IX,” said Nancy Hogshead-Makar, the chief executive of the advocacy group Champion Women.“What it takes, though,” she added, “is 18- to 22-year-olds speaking up, because the adults in the room have abdicated that role of ensuring gender equity.”Title IX — the 1972 landmark federal law mandating gender equity in higher education, including college sports — is nearly 50 years old. But advocates say that many universities fall short of the statute’s requirement that athletic opportunities must correlate with the overall student population. Both the college sports establishment and the federal government have evinced little interest in enforcing that requirement strictly.Advocates say that the N.C.A.A. and its members have not sufficiently prioritized increasing funding for women’s sports.“If sports are being dropped, the money isn’t going to women’s sports — it’s going to the arms race in football and men’s basketball,” Lopiano said. “The culture is football and men’s basketball first. Boys first. Women are still at the back of the bus.”Amy Wilson, the N.C.A.A. managing director of inclusion, said the N.C.A.A.’s member colleges, which create most policy, had no plans to further enforce Title IX to make up for the federal government’s failure to act.“The thinking is, we’re here to run an organization with rules for our sports,” Wilson said.A major challenge for female athletes has been to come up with a response to the argument that women deserve less money because their sports produce less money.Andrew Zimbalist, a sports economist at Smith College, said that those who cling to a free-market argument fail to note the artificial advantages that men’s sports have long enjoyed. Men in the major team sports play in leagues that are monopolies, and have benefited from tens of millions of dollars in public subsidies that have helped finance and promote their endeavors.“While the revenue disparity is a major component of this, it’s partly a result of the lack of promotion women have received,” Zimbalist said. “There is a lot of historical and cultural baggage to all of this.”For all the gains that women have made in golf — the increase in playing opportunities in college and the integration of formerly all-male private clubs — the disparity in purses between the women of the L.P.G.A. Tour and the men of the PGA Tour continues to be striking.In 2018, the women’s leading money winner, Ariya Jutanugarn, won three events, including the United States Women’s Open, and posted 17 top-10 finishes in 28 starts. Her on-course earnings of $2,743,949 were surpassed by 33 players on the PGA Tour, led by Justin Thomas’s $8,694,821. Chesson Hadley, who ranked 33rd, did not record a victory and had seven top-10s in 30 starts on his way to $2,768,863. (The 33rd-ranked L.P.G.A. player, by comparison, earned $626,263.)In 2016, the L.P.G.A. and PGA Tour formed a partnership with the stated aim of creating joint marketing programs and events and coordinating schedules. The alliance apparently does not cover certain fees that fall under the T.P.C. Network, which is part of the PGA Tour.Brittany Lincicome, a two-time major champion, said that when she chooses to practice at T.P.C. Tampa Bay near her home she is required to pay cart fees. Card-carrying members of the PGA Tour incur no such fees.What bothers Lincicome is not the fee per se, “but the principle of it,” she said. “I’m a well-known L.P.G.A. player.”Two years ago, the future looked brighter for the United States women’s hockey team. Like the women’s soccer team, the hockey players were dominant in their sport internationally and far exceeded the achievements of the men’s national team.After threatening to boycott the world championship tournament in 2017 in Plymouth Township, Mich., amid contract negotiations with U.S.A. Hockey for a living wage and more playing opportunities, the women’s team reached a deal that paid each player about $71,000 annually. That was a vast increase over the less than $10,000 that some of them had been making. The deal also provided the female players with travel and insurance provisions that equaled what the men’s national team received.But the support for girls and women’s hockey that U.S.A. Hockey also promised then has been slow to develop. There are no women on U.S.A. Hockey’s marketing council. The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group, which was created in the 2017 deal, has only recently begun to have meaningful dialogue.After earning the gold medal at the 2018 Olympics with a dramatic shootout victory over Canada, its archrival, the women’s team embarked on a weeklong national media tour, visiting talk shows and N.H.L. games. But its post-Olympic exhibition tour never materialized. And there are currently no women’s player jerseys or jerseys in women’s sizes available at U.S.A. Hockey’s online stores.“From a marketing standpoint, is it a huge missed opportunity?” Hilary Knight, the team’s star forward, said late last year. “Probably. We sort of disappeared from the summer.”In tennis, women have pulled closer to pay equality than in any other major sport, with equal pay on the sport’s biggest stages. Tennis players routinely dominate lists of the highest-paid female athletes. But a closer look at the scoreboard each year would still show, “Advantage: Men.”The four Grand Slam events and three other large tournaments — Indian Wells, Calif.; the Miami Open; and the Madrid Open — offer equal prize money to men and women, but women in the top 100 generally make only about 80 percent of the prize money their male counterparts make, because of lower pay at other tournaments.At the Australian Open, Serena Williams spoke of how she talks often about equality on the different boards she sits on outside the sport. “Bringing that into tennis, as well, is something that’s superimportant. The only way to do it is to talk about it and to be open about it, have these conversations that aren’t necessarily comfortable.”The biggest unresolved question in terms of how women are compensated for playing basketball right now is in the W.N.B.A., where the league and the players’ union are engaged in negotiations over a new collective bargaining agreement.Erin Kane, an agent with Octagon who represents Kristi Toliver, Elena Delle Donne and other W.N.B.A. players, said players were largely satisfied with how U.S.A. Basketball treated them.“What the U.S.W.N.T. is doing is timely and inspiring,” Kane said of the soccer lawsuit. “When it comes to money, change is always a fight.”W.N.B.A. players, many of whom play overseas in their off-season to earn more money, are pushing for quality training resources that are consistent across the league and on a par with the N.B.A.Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner, said the league’s compensation system is dependent on its revenues. “We want nothing more than for W.N.B.A. players to receive the recognition they deserve for being world-class athletes,” he said. “And as we work with the W.N.B.P.A. to improve the economics of the league, we also challenge the broader basketball and sports community to support the W.N.B.A. and its athletes.”Chiney Ogwumike, a member of the union’s executive committee, said that for too long W.N.B.A. players have been told to be grateful for what they have.“Our goal is to educate people to respect the fact that we too are the best of the best at what we do,” she said.Seth Berkman, Ben Rothenberg and Howard Megdal contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew Goldstein, Andrew Ross Sorkin and Emily FlitterWilliam E. McGlashan Jr. was sitting on Richard Branson’s private island several years ago when the idea first struck him: He would create a new venture capital fund focused on ethical investing.He had been inspired during a conference on the island also attended by Laurene Powell Jobs, the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs, and Jeff Skoll, the first president of eBay. Soon after, he would recruit them and the U2 singer Bono to the Rise Fund on the promise of doing good.Yet on Tuesday, Mr. McGlashan was one of 50 people caught up in a federal investigation into college admissions fraud, a scandal that has ensnared prominent parents who stand accused of paying bribes to give their children an edge.While two Hollywood actresses were the most recognizable figures to face charges, they were outnumbered by business titans who are not household names.Mr. McGlashan is widely seen as one of Silicon Valley’s most powerful investors, a partner at the $103 billion investment firm TPG. The fund he oversaw there invested in prominent brands including Airbnb, Spotify and Uber. He has been placed on leave from TPG and Rise.Also charged were Gordon Caplan, a top mergers and acquisitions attorney who was a co-chairman of the law firm Willkie Farr, and Doug Hodge, the retired chief executive of Pimco, one of the world’s biggest bond fund managers. Mr. Caplan was placed on leave on Wednesday, and Mr. Hodge’s name was stripped from the website of Sway Ventures, an investment firm where he was a venture partner.Mr. Hodge is also listed as a board member for two wealthy private schools in California: Sage Hill School and the Thacher School. Blossom Beatty Pidduck, Thacher’s head of school, said on Wednesday that Mr. Hodge had been on the board since 2011 and that the board was discussing whether to let him continue serving. Messages left with Sage Hill were not returned Wednesday.The actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin were the boldface names in the charges announced on Tuesday by federal prosecutors in Boston, but such celebrities may still be able to find work after their cases are resolved. That won’t necessarily be the case for the high-powered lawyers and money managers on the list.“Professionals, their stock in trade has to be their integrity,” said Laurie Levenson, a former federal prosecutor and a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. “Celebrities have a different stock in trade.”Mr. Caplan, who worked on complex deals for Hudson’s Bay including the sale of Lord & Taylor’s former flagship store on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, would lose his law license in New York if convicted of a felony. Mr. McGlashan, whose reputation drew star power to a fund with the idea of positive social change, may have a hard time raising money if he has a felony conviction on his record. And Mr. Hodge, who told Harvard Business Review last year that he was surprised “how quickly opportunity came my way” after his retirement, could see those chances to do something new dry up.After the charges were announced, the firms quickly sought to distance themselves from the accused. TPG’s announcement noted that the charges against Mr. McGlashan were for “personal misconduct,” and Willkie Farr pointed out that the case against Mr. Caplan was “a personal matter and does not involve Willkie or any of its clients.” Willkie also removed Mr. Caplan’s biography from the firm’s website.A lawyer for Mr. Caplan and a spokesman for Mr. McGlashan declined to comment on Wednesday. Mr. Hodge could not be reached for comment.Neither TPG nor Willkie is likely to be undone by the charges against a leadership figure, but both firms may face uncomfortable questions from clients and investors. TPG, for example, has long cultivated an image as a progressive and trustworthy institution. It moved quickly to install Jim Coulter, its chief executive and a co-founder, as acting chief of the Rise Fund.Mr. McGlashan is listed as one of several “key men” in agreements with investors who committed money to TPG, but his suspension — or potential permanent exit — would not unwind those agreements unless several more of TPG’s top managers departed, according to a person familiar with the firm’s operations, who was not authorized to speak publicly. Investors in the fund have committed money for several years, and the case is unlikely to have a direct financial impact on the fund.On Wednesday, Mr. McGlashan stepped down from the board of STX Entertainment, the film studio that he helped found with the producer Robert Simonds. The news was shared in an internal memo sent to STX employees and reviewed by The New York Times. STX is funded in large part by TPG, which said in the memo that it remained committed to the studio, whose movies include the teen comedy “The Edge of Seventeen.”Rebecca Roiphe, a former prosecutor and a professor at New York Law School who specializes in legal ethics, said she expected few clients would leave Willkie Farr because of the charges against Mr. Caplan, who in April was named a “deal maker of the year” by The American Lawyer, a trade magazine. But she said the case could give potential clients a reason to ask questions about the firm’s culture and its process for selecting lawyers to manage the firm.“They made the choice to have this person represent the firm,” Ms. Roiphe said.Charging documents filed by federal prosecutors describe how parents were willing to pay William Singer, the founder of the Edge College & Career Network, a college preparatory business, up to $75,000 to arrange for cheating on standardized tests or hundreds of thousands of dollars to bribe college coaches to recruit a student. Mr. Singer, who has pleaded guilty to charges including racketeering conspiracy and obstruction of justice, cooperated with the investigation.According to prosecutors, Mr. Singer advised Mr. McGlashan to claim that his son had learning disabilities, which would allow the student more time to complete an entrance exam, and Mr. McGlashan gave $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s charity. The men also discussed creating a fake football recruiting profile for his son.Mr. Hodge paid more than half a million dollars to get two of his children into the University of Southern California, according to prosecutors, who also said his discussions with Mr. Singer had been captured on secret recordings.Mr. Caplan was also caught on tape, the authorities said. In discussing the scheme to improve his daughter’s college entrance exam score in return for $75,000, prosecutors said, Mr. Caplan asked Mr. Singer a number of times if anyone has gotten “caught” or “ever gotten into an issue with this.”At one point, prosecutors said, he told Mr. Singer: “Keep in mind I am a lawyer. So I am sort of rule-oriented.”An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of assets that the investment firm TPG has under management. It is $103 billion, not $70 billion.Katie Benner and Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Billy WitzLOS ANGELES — Ron Allice, the track and field coach at the University of Southern California, assumed bad news was on the way when Donna Heinel summoned him to her office back in 2011.He was right.Heinel, the athletic department administrator who functioned as a gatekeeper over whether recruited athletes could find a spot at the increasingly competitive private university, had found a problem with the track athlete Allice was pushing. He had taken a sign language class to fulfill a foreign language requirement and, though that was the standard in the state university systems, Heinel dug in against him.Now, Allice wonders if there was another reason Heinel was so resolute. And he is not alone.Heinel, 57, who as an unyielding, by-the-book administrator rose to a position of unchecked authority during her 16 years in the U.S.C. athletic department, has emerged as a central figure in the academic admissions scandal that has ensnared members of rich — and in some cases famous — families. They are among 50 people charged with carrying out a series of bribes and rigged admissions qualifications, including making up athletic accomplishments, in order to get affluent children into prestigious universities across the country.Nowhere was the scheme more widespread than at U.S.C., where four others who have coached there — one of them until earlier this month — are under indictment. Heinel stands accused of being at the fulcrum of the scheme, conspiring with Rick Singer, a private admissions consultant, to obtain millions in bribes and then easing more than two dozen students into the school through the so-called side door of athletic admissions, using fraudulent athletic profiles.Through a lawyer, Heinel, who was fired the day she was indicted, declined to comment.Heinel is the only administrator who has been charged, and her university is the only one of eight involved at which more than one coach has been implicated.U.S.C.’s interim president, Wanda Austin, has pledged to revamp its athletic admissions process.According to the indictment, Heinel and Singer, the private counselor who hatched the plan, collaborated with the water polo coach, Jovan Vavic, and the former soccer coach, Ali Khosroshahin, who was fired in 2013, and his former assistant Laura Janke, who created phony athletic profiles. Like Heinel, Vavic was fired by U.S.C. on March 12, the day the indictments were unsealed.It was a stunning revelation. Heinel ran an independent business counseling parents and high school administrators on how to comply with N.C.A.A. regulations. Colleagues described her as a stickler for the rules.Tom Walsh, the former cross country coach who left U.S.C. in 2013 after 19 years, said coaches sweated the days when they had to attest to the worthiness of their recruits to Heinel. “It didn’t matter how good people were,” Walsh recalled in an interview last week. “Coaches in different sports would commiserate: damn, this is tough.” In fact, Walsh said, if you had asked him before the indictment about Heinel’s standards, “I’d have said she was as hard as it gets.”Walsh and his former colleagues are now wondering how far back the alleged scam might have gone. Heinel required coaches who recruited athletes from Europe to have their transcripts translated in the United States to limit the chances of fraud, Walsh said. One runner he recruited was an artist. Heinel demanded to see a portfolio, and copies or photos of the works were not sufficient. The originals had to be shipped.“She was basically the gatekeeper,” said a former U.S.C. coach who requested anonymity because he was concerned that being identified could hurt his career. “If you wanted to get someone in, she was the person that really made that decision. Or not.”Regardless of that power, Heinel largely kept a low profile both on campus and off. She has two children in elementary school and lives with her partner, a school-district special-education administrator, on Naples Island, an exclusive neighborhood in Long Beach, Calif., known for multimillion-dollar homes on winding canals.Neighbors were shocked when F.B.I. agents surrounded Heinel’s house on a narrow, quiet side street just before dawn 10 days ago to arrest her, instructing an inquisitive neighbor to go back in his house. Heinel was described by neighbors as quiet and unassuming, driving a red sedan reminiscent of the official color of U.S.C., walking the dog, jogging or riding a bike frequently, and flying drones or playing sports with her son and daughter.Neighbors said Heinel generally kept to herself, even when they mentioned their children had gone to U.S.C.“It’s usually, ‘Hi, how you doing?’” said Keith Muirhead, a real estate broker who has lived in the house one door down for 36 years. Muirhead described Heinel as friendly, but said that they had “never socialized, never had a glass of wine, which is unusual because in Naples it’s almost a rule.”It’s not clear when exactly Heinel developed a relationship with Singer. But since 2014, Heinel had presented to admissions more than two dozen students with bogus athletic credentials, including a football player whose high school had no football team, as well as a 5-foot-5 men’s basketball player and a high school cheerleader made to look like a lacrosse star. In fact, emails and recorded phone conversations in the indictment paint a portrait of Heinel not merely as a conduit, but also as a fixer who could spot potential brush fires and swept aside skeptical questions.When counselors at two high schools reviewing applications to U.S.C. last April raised questions with parents about the listed athletic qualifications of their children, Heinel called Singer. In a voice mail message captured by investigators, she warned that the indignant parents must be stopped from going to the high school “yelling at counselors.”“That’ll shut everything — that’ll shut everything down,” she said.Around the same time, Heinel wrote a lengthy email to the U.S.C. director of admissions to set aside concerns about the athletic credentials of Matteo Sloane, the son of a drinking and wastewater systems entrepreneur who was admitted as a water polo player despite not playing the sport.Heinel said that because Sloane’s high school did not have a water polo team, he played at L.A. Water Polo Club during the school year and traveled internationally with a youth junior team in the summer, playing in Greece, Serbia and Portugal. None of this was true.“He is small,” Heinel continued in the email. “But he has a long torso but short strong legs, plus he is fast which helps him win the draws to start play after goals are scored. He is an attack perimeter player.” She then thanked the admissions director for raising the discrepancy. Sloane did not play for U.S.C.The admissions director replied to Heinel, thanking her and saying that a paraphrased version of her email would be passed along to assure the high school officials that U.S.C. had looked into the matter. “They seemed unusually skeptical,” the director wrote.There seemed to be no such skepticism of Heinel at U.S.C.Through her 16 years at the school, she grew increasingly powerful, controlling two areas that were crucial to coaches: admissions and budgets. That reputation helped lead to her ascent, colleagues said.Pat Haden, a former U.S.C. football star lured from his post at a private equity firm to become athletic director after the football and basketball programs were penalized in 2010 for improper benefits to players, tripled the department’s compliance staff. He also promoted Heinel to senior woman administrator and the director of admissions and eligibility, jobs that had previously been handled by two associate athletic directors. Haden could not be reached for comment.Heinel managed to cash in on her experience navigating admissions for prospective student athletes. In 2008, she established a side business, Clear the Clearinghouse, which advised high school coaches, counselors and administrators on N.C.A.A. rules for athletes. She offered subscriptions services, for up to $700 annually, and hosted workshops that cost $100, along with offering to do consulting work.Heinel’s business held two-hour workshops at U.S.C.’s Galen Center. The notices advertising the clinics were sent to about 150 high school and private counselors, either from Heinel’s work email account or from that of Katie Fuller, an assistant director of admissions and eligibility at the school.Typically, about 50 people attended the workshops, according to one private counselor who said she attended two of them, several years apart.The workshops were unusual in that most schools, including U.S.C., put them on at no cost or for a nominal fee as a sort of public service for counselors.One of the few documented interviews with Heinel is from a panel discussion for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people she participated in at U.S.C. in 2013, at which she described herself “as a loner for mostly all of my life.” Growing up in Philadelphia, she recalled, she was estranged from her parents for more than two years when she came out to them as gay while she was a student at Springfield College in Massachusetts, where she was a member of the swim team. But she reconciled with them somewhat a couple of years later when a sister became ill with cancer.The experience of coming out to her parents stayed with her. “I’ve just kind of been, ‘Do what I want to do, when I want to do it,” she said.Years later, established in her career as an athletic administrator, Heinel quickly developed a rapport with Haden, who has a gay son. Haden, and his successor, Lynn Swann, instituted few checks on Heinel’s powers.From October until April, Heinel would meet every other Thursday with a subcommittee from the admissions office that included the dean of admissions and two assistants. At each meeting, Heinel would go through a list of recruits, including their test scores, transcripts and athletic profile, and within a few days would get a thumbs-up or thumbs-down on whether they would be admitted, according to both colleagues and the indictment.Sprinkled among those hundreds of recruits in 19 sports were the fraudulent athletic résumés that Heinel is accused of shepherding.Often those profiles were created by Janke, who was paid by Singer, but according to the affidavit, on at least one occasion, Heinel created a profile on a U.S.C. letterhead that made it appear as if the U.S.C. lacrosse coach were lavishing praise on a recruit who in reality had never played the sport.Almost always, within days of one of Singer’s clients being conditionally admitted to U.S.C., a check for $50,000 or more made out to “U.S.C. women’s athletics” or “U.S.C. athletics” would arrive in an envelope addressed to Heinel. In all, those checks added up to $1.3 million, which were deposited into accounts that Heinel largely controlled and could distribute to various teams. (Heinel also received $20,000 per month dating to last July from Singer in what court documents referred to as a “sham” consulting agreement.)In explaining to Todd Blake why he had received a solicitation call asking for another donation to women’s basketball when his daughter was admitted fraudulently as a volleyball player, Singer said: “the money went toward her,” referring to Heinel, “and she gets to decide where it goes within the department.”Eight years later, Allice, the retired track and field coach, remains annoyed. Memories of that hurdler were dredged up by the allegations against a woman who now stands accused of fraud. The athlete Heinel said did not measure up to the school’s standards was hardly a borderline athlete, much less one of the fakes she and Singer created.The hurdler, Johnathan Cabral, ended up at U.S.C.’s Pac-12 rival, Oregon, where he would finish second in the N.C.A.A. finals in the 110-meter hurdles as a senior. A year later he finished sixth during the 2016 Olympics while representing Canada.An earlier version of this article misstated one of Donna Heinel’s titles at U.S.C. She was the senior woman administrator, not the senior women’s administrator.Kevin Draper contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy and Kitty Bennett contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn SoccerBy Rory SmithThe trick, with Aurelio De Laurentiis, is to sit and to wait. He tends to take the scenic route through a conversation; his answers come wrapped in anecdotes and parables, laced with riddles and rhetorical questions.There are times when you wonder if he has taken one detour too many, become so distracted by his own tangents that he has lost his thread. Listening back, it is hard to pinpoint how, exactly, a question about the Champions League’s revenue distribution leads to a brief but powerful homily about the dangers of the ‘Ndrangheta, the Calabrian mafia, but it does.It is, though, no great ordeal. De Laurentiis might be most famous now as owner of S.S.C. Napoli, the Italian soccer team he rescued from oblivion and painstakingly restored to Europe’s head table, but he is still, at heart, a film producer, a showman. He knows how to weave together a story, how to craft a compelling pitch. And when he gets to his destination, as he always does, it is invariably worth it.De Laurentiis is, after all, never knowingly short of ideas on how to revolutionize soccer, never without a sacred cow to slaughter, never without a tradition to overhaul. He has, at various times in the recent past, suggested cutting games from 90 minutes to 60 and advocated the effective abolition of UEFA, European soccer’s governing body, instead handing power directly to Europe’s biggest clubs.He is also never lacking an adversary, some villain standing in the way of progress, holding the game back through lack of imagination. His list has previously included not only UEFA but FIFA, Adidas, Nike, collective television deals and the Italian political establishment, among others. Many others.He does all this with a relish and a frequency befitting the scion of one of Italy’s great cinematic dynasties. In his eyes, soccer (and life, most likely) is entertainment. Creating a stir comes naturally. It is all part of the show.Sitting in a hotel in Liverpool, England, in December, on the eve of what would turn out to be Napoli’s final Champions League game this season, he did not require a vast amount of assistance, then, to land upon his current bête noire.He would like, he said, to change the way prize money is handed out by the major leagues. He thinks underperformance should not be rewarded. Rather, he thinks it should be punished. “You finish first, you get €100 million, for example,” he says. “You finish second, you earn €50 million, and so on. But if you finish last, you pay a fine.”This has been a recurrent theme for De Laurentiis this season. He has singled out Frosinone — a minor team from a town between Rome and Naples, promoted to Italy’s top league, Serie A, for only the second time in its history last year — as an example of a club that arrives in the top flight “already relegated.”Clubs like Frosinone do not draw fans, or interest, or broadcasters to the league, De Laurentiis says. They come up, they do not try to compete, and they go back down, except with their coffers stuffed by what he sees as an unwarranted share of the division’s television revenue.“The problem is the small teams have the same rights as the big ones,” he said, adding, with a reference to a type of bread: “Why should Frosinone have a season in Serie A, be given a slice of the pagnotta and then be relegated back to the third division? If they cannot compete, if they finish last, they should have to pay a fine. They shouldn’t be given money for failing.”After yet another tangent in which he dismisses an overmatched club in a major league as a mere “sparring partner,” he quickly builds up a head of steam. “Promotion and relegation is the biggest idiocy in soccer,” De Laurentiis says. “Especially when you also have UEFA trying to force clubs to comply with financial fair play rules. Clubs should be structured geographically, so they can all be self-sufficient. If they cannot survive financially, if they cannot be self-sufficient, they should be booted out.”It would be easy to listen to De Laurentiis’s words, to hear the many and varied ways in which he feels soccer has gotten things wrong, and to assume that he holds it in contempt, that he has wearied of the sport in the 15 years or so since he bought up what remained of Napoli — “just the name,” he has said previously — and set about reinvigorating it.His actions, though, are rather different. De Laurentiis is not distancing himself from soccer; rather, he is embedding himself more deeply in it. He has, for several years, been seeking to add another club to his portfolio; ideally, he would have liked one in London. “We never found the occasion,” he said.He switched his attentions to the United States, investigating an offer to buy an expansion franchise in Major League Soccer. He spent months examining proposals in Baltimore, Detroit and Las Vegas, he said, but was put off by the cost of a team — more than $150 million, plus the cost of a new stadium, in the last expansion round.Then, in August, De Laurentiis received a phone call from the mayor of Bari, a port city in Apulia, down near Italy’s boot heel. The local club, which played in Serie A as recently as 2011, had been declared bankrupt and had been relegated to the fourth tier of Italian soccer. The mayor offered De Laurentiis the chance to buy it.“I was surprised,” he said. “I don’t know anyone in Bari. I have barely ever been there.”More surprising still, however, is that De Laurentiis eventually said yes. Napoli and Bari are, strictly speaking, rivals, but suddenly the same family owned them: the older De Laurentiis in charge of the former, and his son, Luigi, given control of the latter.It was not, needless to say, a universally popular move. Though Bari’s fans were broadly welcoming — “They saw we were serious people,” Aurelio De Laurentiis said — there was dissent in Naples. “Get out of our city,” read one banner, slung from railings in the city the night the Bari purchase was announced.De Laurentiis insists that owning another team will not draw his focus from his first love. “Napoli is Napoli, Bari is Bari,” he said. His son, meanwhile, is adamant that the expertise he and his father have gleaned on the Tyrrhenian coast now can be applied on the Adriatic.“We started from zero,” Luigi said of Bari. “We had to create the brand, starting with a new crest, and then do all of the things necessary for a team: a season-ticket campaign, a website, the marketing, the social media, the jerseys, finding sponsors.”The rationale, the younger De Laurentiis said, is obvious. “Bari has a national appeal; we are the only team in our division being broadcast nationally,” he said, the result of a partnership with the streaming service DAZN. Apulia itself has seen a boom in tourism in recent years; the opportunity, the younger De Laurentiis said, was too good to ignore.The plan, needless to say, is to restore Bari to the top flight, even if that would create a battle with the game’s authorities over whether two teams in the same competition can have the same ownership.“Bari is a recognizable brand,” Luigi said. “It is not Frosinone. It has played in Serie A. It has a long list of famous former players.”It is not the sort of team, in other words, that Aurelio De Laurentiis would denounce as a sparring partner, a club whose only purpose is to pad out the standings and to pick up a paycheck. De Laurentiis might compulsively court controversy. He might prod and poke and provoke his rivals, and soccer’s authorities. He might do it all in the name of entertainment. He is, though, as good as his word. Bari is putting his money where his mouth is. He thinks soccer needs to change. So he is trying to change it.Follow Rory Smith on Twitter: @RorySmith.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byReplacement of the aortic valve with a minimally invasive procedure called TAVR proved effective in younger, healthier patients. By Gina KolataThe operation is a daring one: To replace a failing heart valve, cardiologists insert a replacement through a patient’s groin and thread it all the way to the heart, maneuvering it into the site of the old valve.The procedure, called transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), has been reserved mostly for patients so old and sick they might not survive open-heart surgery. Now, two large clinical trials show that TAVR is just as useful in younger, healthier patients.It might even be better, offering lower risks of disabling strokes and death, compared to open-heart surgery. Cardiologists say it will likely change the standard of care for most patients with failing aortic valves.“Is it important? Heck, yes,” said Dr. Robert Lederman, who directs the interventional cardiology research program at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. The findings “were remarkable,” he added.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Dr. Lederman was not involved with the studies and does not consult for the two device companies that sponsored them.In open-heart surgery, a patient’s ribs are cracked apart and the heart is stopped to insert the new aortic valve. With TAVR, the only incision is a small hole in the groin where the catheter is inserted. Most patients are sedated, but awake through the procedure, and recovery takes just days, not months, as is often the case following the usual surgery. The results “shift our thinking from asking who should get TAVR to why should anyone get surgery,” said Dr. Howard Herrmann, director of interventional cardiology at the University of Pennsylvania. “If I were a patient, I would choose TAVR,” said Dr. Gilbert Tang, a heart surgeon at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, who was not involved in the new research. The studies are to be published in the New England Journal of Medicine and presented on Sunday at the American College of Cardiology’s annual meeting.The Food and Drug Administration is expected to approve the procedure for lower-risk patients. As many as 20,000 patients a year would be eligible for TAVR, in addition to the nearly 60,000 intermediate- and high-risk patients who get the operation now.“This is a clear win for TAVR,” said Dr. Michael J. Mack, a heart surgeon at Baylor Scott and White The Heart Hospital-Plano, in Texas. From now on, “we will be very selective” about who gets open-heart surgery, said Dr. Mack, a principal investigator in one of the trials.Some healthier patients will still need the traditional surgery — for example, those born with two flaps to the aortic valve instead of the usual three. Having two flaps can lead to early aortic valve failure. TAVR was not tested in these patients, and the condition occurs more often in younger patients who are low surgical risks. Aortic valve failure stems from a stiffening of the valve controlling flow from the large vessel in the heart that supplies blood to the rest of the body. Patients often are tired and short of breath. There is no way to prevent the condition, and no treatment other than replacing the valve. The main risk factor is advancing age.Although both studies enrolled over 1,000 patients, the trials differed slightly in design, making direct comparisons difficult. The study led by Dr. Mack and Dr. Martin Leon, an interventional cardiologist at Columbia University in New York, tracked deaths, disabling strokes and hospitalizations at one year following the procedures. The rates were 15 percent with surgery versus 8.5 percent with TAVR. The rates of deaths and disabling strokes — the factors most important to patients — were 2.9 percent with surgery versus 1 percent with TAVR.The second study estimated deaths or disabling strokes at two years, finding rates of 6.7 percent with surgery versus 5.3 percent with TAVR.The trials were sponsored by makers of TAVR valves, Edwards Lifesciences of Irvine, Calif., and Medtronic, headquartered in Dublin. The two companies make slightly different valves. The Edwards valve is compressed onto a balloon catheter that is pushed through a blood vessel from the groin to the aorta. Once it reaches the aorta, a cardiologist inflates the balloon and expands the valve, which pushes aside the failing valve.The Medtronic valve is made of nitinol, a metal that shrinks when it is cold and expands when warm. The valve is chilled and put onto a catheter. When it reaches the aorta, the cardiologist pulls back a sheath, freeing the new valve. Warmed by the body, it expands to fill the narrowed opening and remains there.With traditional surgery, by contrast, a doctor cuts out the old valve and sews in a new one, removing the old valve instead of leaving it in the heart.Dr. Jeffrey J. Popma, an interventional cardiologist at Beth Israel Deaconess in Boston, led the second trial and is a consultant for both manufacturers. He uses both devices in surgery, and said the important finding is that both were preferable to surgery.The studies involved leading surgeons and cardiologists at academic medical centers, many enlisted as consultants. Independent data and safety monitoring committees oversaw the trials, and independent statisticians confirmed the results.Aortic valve replacements have been performed for decades, and surgeons know the valves placed during surgery last at least 10 to 15 years. It remains to be seen if TAVR valves will fare as well. The question is especially important for younger patients. The average age of subjects in the current studies was the low to mid 70s, younger by a decade or more than most patients getting TAVR now.Hospitals offering TAVR will take a financial hit when lower-risk patients start opting for it, Dr. Herrmann said. The TAVR valves cost far more than valves placed surgically, but insurers usually pay equally for either procedure.“Open-heart surgery, particularly in low-risk patients, is very profitable,” Dr. Herrmann said. More than half a dozen companies make surgical valves, but only two market TAVR valves. Perhaps with more competition, Dr. Herrmann said, prices for TAVR valves will come down.At the moment, it will be up to most patients which procedure they choose, Dr. Popma said — TAVR or surgery.For Robert Pettinato, 79-year-old retiree in Scranton, Pa., there was no question. He had been feeling mild chest pain, and he was finding it difficult to finish a round of golf.But last year, when his cardiologist told Mr. Pettinato that he needed a new valve, the only way he could get TAVR was to enter a clinical trial. He enrolled in the Edwards trial at the University of Pennsylvania. He had TAVR in November, stayed in the hospital for 24 hours and went home. A few days later, he went to the football game at Lehigh University against its archrival, Lafayette. (He’s a Lehigh alumnus and never misses that game.)Shortly afterward, his younger brother Jim, who lives in Florida, had to have aortic valve replacement. He wanted TAVR, but the clinical trials were closed. He had surgery instead.It took his brother four months to recover enough to play a round of golf, Mr. Pettinato said.Mr. Pettinato is back to playing golf himself. “I am the luckiest guy in the world,” he said. Gina Kolata writes about science and medicine. She has twice been a Pulitzer Prize finalist and is the author of six books, including “Mercies in Disguise: A Story of Hope, a Family's Genetic Destiny, and The Science That Saved Them.”  @ginakolata • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPicture PromptsBy Natalie ProulxWhat do you think about the spread President Trump presented the college football champions, the Clemson Tigers, at the White House on Monday as a celebration of their athletic achievement? What’s your reaction to the image above of the fast-food buffet in such an opulent setting?Are you a fast-food fan? Is this the feast of your dreams or your nightmares?Tell us why in the comments, then read the related article to find out why these elite athletes dined on fast-food fare for their White House dinner.Find many more ways to use our Picture Prompt feature in this lesson plan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunFLORHAM PARK, N.J. — A day after the Jets fired Coach Todd Bowles following the team’s season-ending 38-3 loss to the New England Patriots, team chairman and chief executive Christopher Johnson said the franchise will move quickly in finding a replacement.Seven other N.F.L. teams have joined the Jets with vacancies at the top coaching spot, adding to the urgency felt by an organization that has not reached the playoffs since 2010.Speaking to reporters from the team’s practice facility on Monday, Johnson said he will work with General Manager Mike Maccagnan and Brian Heimerdinger, the team’s vice president of player personnel, without any external influence from consultants or search firms, unlike the last coaching search.Owner Woody Johnson, currently the United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom, might get a phone call or two with updates, but the ultimate decision will be made by Christopher, who is Woody’s younger brother.Perhaps the most critical figure in the selection, however, will be the rookie quarterback Sam Darnold. It is clear that the organization feels it has the foundational player to build around — coaching staff included.“The person doesn’t have to be an offense or defense-minded head coach,” Maccagnan said. “But we definitely want to make sure they have a plan in place to try to develop our young quarterback in Sam Darnold.”Maccagnan went as far as to say that, while the 21-year-old quarterback will not have a say in who the team decides upon, they plan to ask candidates to spend time with Darnold, which could give the team a sense of their chemistry. It sounded, well, a bit like an arranged date.But for Maccagnan, there are two clear examples of teams that engineered fantastic turnarounds based, in large part, around finding a coach that could get the most out of a young quarterback. The Los Angeles Rams and the Chicago Bears are both headed to the playoffs this year, but at one time both teams struggled with a rookie quarterback, proceeded to hire a new coach with that quarterback in mind, and saw their prospects skyrocket.“We’ve developed what I think is a good plan,” Christopher Johnson said. “It really came together with Sam, and now we’re going to build with and around Sam.”Asked what qualities he would look for in a new coach, Johnson began his response by mentioning that experience working with a quarterback would jump out to him.“Somebody who has created a great quarterback would be a big plus,” he said.Darnold, despite missing three games with a foot strain, tied for second in the league with 15 interceptions. But his final three games after returning from the injury were some of his best of the season.“I thought in the beginning of the year, I took a while to get comfortable,” Darnold said. “Then once I got comfortable in the offense, I felt very confident when I was out there. Just going to keep growing and keep trying to make those strides and watch the tape, see how I can get better and move forward from there.”The organizational structure will not change, with the new coach reporting directly to Johnson, rather than to Maccagnan, who has two years remaining on his contract.“The buck stops with me,” Johnson said. “I think I let the fans down here, and I’m going to do everything in my power to make sure we get to and win a Super Bowl.”After a third-straight season with at least 11 losses — the first time the franchise had accomplished that since 1977 — talk of championships rings somewhat hollow. But the Jets have more than $100 million in salary-cap space this off-season and Johnson said the plan is to be aggressive in spending it.Following Sunday’s loss, Jamal Adams, a safety, openly questioned the team’s assembled talent. Johnson said every team would love to have more talent, but the Jets struggled to find consistency under Bowles.“We had some talent on this team already,” Johnson said. “We should have done better in the win-loss column.”This time a year ago, Maccagnan noted, the team had many of the same question marks, but there was also a gaping hole at quarterback. With Darnold, at least that vacancy has been filled.And according to Johnson, that should make the Jets a very attractive opening in a crowded marketplace.“We haven’t had what we think is a franchise quarterback in a long time,” Johnson said, adding that “if you win here, you’re a freaking legend. That counts for something.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisIn 1973, the performer Hugo Zacchini sued Scripps‐Howard Broadcasting after one of its news programs aired his entire act on television — an act in which he shot himself out of a cannon at an Ohio county fair and landed in a net 200 feet away.The case made it all the way to the Supreme Court, which found in his favor, saying, essentially, that if someone could watch the whole thing on television, why would they bother to get off the couch and see it in person?Today, a new set of cases is nudging the legal boundaries of who controls certain performances. This dispute centers on dancing avatars in Fortnite Battle Royale, one of the biggest video games in the world, and whether the moves they do are owned by somebody else.Three performers have sued Epic Games, which makes Fortnite, an addictive, money-minting juggernaut of a survival game where players fight it out to stay alive while they kill everybody else. The game is free to download, but players purchase add-ons as they go along, including a rotating offering of dance moves called “emotes.”Among those moves, according to the complaints, filed beginning in December in Federal District Court in Los Angeles, is an enthusiastic back-and-forth arm-swinging motion that looks just like the Floss, a speedy little dance created by Russell Horning, a teenager from Lawrenceville, Ga., who goes by the name Backpack Kid.There is also a snappy number called Fresh that looks uncannily like the Carlton Dance done by Alfonso Ribeiro, the actor who played Carlton on the show “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.”And there is a swishy-swaying motion, which the complaint says is identical to the Milly Rock, created by the rapper 2 Milly.“People book me, they pay me to come perform the song and do the dance,” 2 Milly said in an interview. “They’re stealing from me.”Mr. Ribeiro, 2 Milly and Backpack Kid’s mother (on his behalf) are suing Epic Games for copyright infringement. They are also suing Take-Two Interactive Software, maker of the NBA 2K games, which also allow players to buy the dances.The plaintiffs’ lawyer, David L. Hecht, said that his firm has spoken with a “significant number” of people about bringing similar claims and that he has hired a team of people, mostly in their 20s, to play video games for him as research.Mr. Hecht said more suits are in the works, and a quick internet search suggests he could easily fill a courtroom with clients. One video posted on YouTube shows 58 Fortnite emotes, including fairly simple gestures and high-energy dances, alongside what appear to be their original references. The video has been viewed more than 28 million times.Mr. Hecht said that side-by-side comparisons of his clients’ dances and the Fortnite emotes show that “the movements of the entire body are being duplicated.”Epic Games said it would not comment on ongoing litigation. Take-Two did not respond to a request for comment.The companies have not yet filed their defenses in court, though they are likely to argue that the dance moves cannot be copyrighted. The lawsuits are among several recent cases testing copyright laws that were written in a vastly different technological age. Indeed, as digital animation has become richly vivid and detailed, even who owns the rights to tattoos drawn on athletes’ bodies has become an issue in sports video games.But while there is plenty of case law regarding the copyrighting of songs and written works, there is far less in the record regarding choreography. One case several years ago involved Bikram Choudhury, the now-disgraced yoga instructor, who tried to copyright a “hot yoga” sequence as a choreographic work. He lost.Several intellectual property lawyers suggested there have not been a lot of choreography cases because there is not a lot of money in choreography.And while they were tickled by the Fortnite cases (“Fortnite meets ‘Flossing,’ it’s the perfect storm of things!” said Jeanne Fromer, a professor at N.Y.U. law school), they were generally pessimistic about the lawsuits’ chances.When deciding if a dance is eligible for copyright, courts look at a combination of factors, including its level of creativity, its complexity or length, and whether the work was independently created. You can’t copyright a musical note or a word, for example, but string enough of them together and you’ve got a song you can own. Individual dance steps are likewise not copyrightable, according to the copyright office’s rule book. And the dances targeted in Fortnite are all quite short.“The question here is really an unlitigated question, which is what is the minimum quantum necessary for a choreographic work?” said David Nimmer, an expert in copyright law. “Is there enough here to have a choreographic work, or are they just the basic building blocks, like words are the basic building blocks of poems, and nobody can own it.”Mr. Hecht argues that what’s used in Fortnite are “the most identifiable, signature aspects of those original performances.” The fact that the dances are available individually for specific prices — about $8 for the Fresh and $5 for the Floss, according to the complaints — makes their sale especially egregious, according to Mr. Hecht.Mr. Hecht, along with Chance the Rapper, has also accused Epic Games of exploiting the works of black artists in particular, though in the case of Fortnite, the YouTube clip of 58 emotes shows plenty of work by performers of other ethnicities.Even if a dance is deemed long enough, there are other hurdles. For example, the United States Copyright Office will not register what it calls a social dance, like ballroom dancing or break dancing.Thomas Kadri, a resident fellow at the Information Society Project at Yale Law School, said that if Fortnite has copied moves, “it does strike me as a little unfair.”But if every move could be copyrighted, he said, it could stifle the creation of new work: “It becomes very difficult when every building block of culture becomes somebody’s property in a way that can exclude people from using it.”Another argument in the Fortnite lawsuits is that those shimmying avatars are violating the performers’ “right of publicity,” which gives someone control over things like their likeness, name and voice. The human cannonball dispute was this kind of case, and Vanna White once sued Samsung for an ad featuring a blond, begowned robot flipping over giant letters. Both Ms. White and the cannonball, Mr. Zacchini, won, but intellectual property lawyers said this argument, too, is likely a long shot against Fortnite.“Think about how many people want to dance at a club on a Saturday night versus how many people want to shoot themselves out of a cannon,” said Robert Brauneis, a co-director of the intellectual property program at George Washington University Law School. “I think the court would take into account what kind of activity this is going to burden.”Ms. Fromer, the New York University law professor, said that she, too, would expect these suits to fail in the face of current copyright law, but given the power of memes and video snippets in our culture, she wondered if they should.“I’m more intrigued by whether we ought to be re-evaluating copyright law in a world where we have bite-sized works and larger works, as well,” she said.“There is money to be made in the video game space. The question really is who deserves it.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherRobert K. Kraft, the owner of the N.F.L.’s New England Patriots, has pleaded not guilty in Florida to charges of soliciting prostitution.The plea, on two first-degree misdemeanor charges, were submitted in writing to the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County, not in person. Mr. Kraft requested a nonjury trial. The plea was filed Monday and made public on Thursday.Mr. Kraft was charged with two first-degree misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution. He was one of 25 people charged by the state attorney. If convicted, Mr. Kraft would face up to one year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service. However, at a news conference on Monday, the state attorney, Dave Aronberg, said that first-time offenders rarely spent time in jail.Mr. Kraft has a scheduled court date of March 27 in Florida. He is not required to be present and most likely will be represented by his lawyer, Jack Goldberger.The plea was not a surprise. When news of the charges against Mr. Kraft broke last week, a Patriots spokesman said, “We categorically deny that Mr. Kraft engaged in any illegal activity.”Mr. Kraft could also face discipline from N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell has broad powers to penalize not only players but also league executives and team owners. Mr. Kraft can be fined up to $500,000 and suspended for several games, which would mean he would have to stay away from the team’s practice site and stadium. If Mr. Goodell seeks a harsher penalty, he would need the approval of the other owners.A few owners have been penalized in prior years, but those punishments were for felony convictions. While Mr. Kraft’s legal case is less severe, and the charges could be reduced or dropped, the league could still punish him for “conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football.”The league has tried to address criticism that it has been too lenient with players accused of domestic abuse. Teams, too, have been criticized for mistreating their cheerleaders. The N.F.L. has also supported efforts by law enforcement agencies to combat human sex trafficking.Mr. Kraft has also donated heavily to My Life, My Choice, a nonprofit organization in Boston that supports girls who were exploited by the commercial sex industry.The police said they had captured Mr. Kraft on video during two visits to a storefront massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla., a 30-minute drive from Palm Beach, where Mr. Kraft stays when he is in Florida.According to the affidavit, he visited the parlor on Jan. 19, arriving in a Bentley driven by a chauffeur. Hidden-camera recordings showed Mr. Kraft entering the massage parlor, and a woman massaging his genitals.The next day, Mr. Kraft returned in a different chauffeur-driven Bentley for a 14-minute visit that included another sex act, according to the affidavit. Later that day, he flew to Kansas City, Mo., where the Patriots beat the Chiefs in the A.F.C. championship game to earn a berth in the Super Bowl.Two weeks later, the Patriots defeated the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, to win their sixth Super Bowl title under Mr. Kraft’s ownership, which began in 1994.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)What does it take to be a food critic for all of California?At first blush, it sounds like a pretty simple gig — roam around, eat delicious stuff, decide if it’s good. But then you start thinking about the mechanics. Where would you even start?Fortunately, we have Tejal Rao, The Times’s California restaurant critic. She’s been writing other pieces and sending us weekend food recommendations for a while, but this week she posted her first official review, of Angler, a seafood restaurant in San Francisco. I asked her about her approach to the job.Jill Cowan: California is huge and, in my not-so-unique opinion, it has the best dining in the world. How are you deciding which places to review? Tejal Rao: It’s torture because there’s so much ground to cover: So much good food and so little time! I’m new to the state, it’s only been a couple of months, so for now I think of every single place I visit as a kind of vital lesson. Every meal is giving me context and helping to establish the ins and outs of California dining culture.In deciding where to go, I’m always paying close attention to cooks, friends, readers, purveyors, local newspapers, menus, everything, and trying to gather as much information as possible so that I can decide how to spend my time strategically, since it’s limited. (If you want to email me a tip about where to go, I’m at tejal.rao@nytimes.com.)Can you tell us about how your review process works? Are you factoring in things beyond the experience of eating at a place? (For instance, you considered how Angler’s chef is adapting to climate change.)I don’t have a formal process. It’s all pretty messy and intuitive, but it does start with the food. With the pleasure of it, ideally, but not always. Basically I know a meal has the potential to be a review if I can draw readers’ attention to a restaurant that’s interesting and I can weave in other narratives and ideas into the criticism.I tend to do a lot of reporting and research that maybe doesn’t make it into a story, but does help to shape it. Calling professors, interviewing fishermen, reading academic papers or old cookbooks. Yes, eating at the restaurant is at the heart of the review, but eating can’t exist in a vacuum or it’s pretty boring.Are there any trends you’re particularly interested in? And any predictions about dining in California?I hope more restaurants work to be, not just technically accessible, but more attentive, warm and welcoming places for diners with disabilities — with more inclusive designs and more comprehensive training for staff. And while I love reporting on the spaces that women and people of color are increasingly building for themselves, often without outside investment, I’m interested to see what happens when more major investors pay attention and fund their projects.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• The Pacific Gas and Electric bankruptcy will most likely be a long and complex ordeal with many ripple effects. Among them: The solar energy companies that supply the utility could suffer, which could in turn jeopardize California’s ambitious climate goals. [The New York Times]• And see how California’s power generation changed from 2001 to 2017 in this interactive. [The New York Times]• Yesterday, on the fourth day of the L.A. teachers’ strike, hundreds of students whose families couldn’t pay for child care poured into Virgil Middle School, while at a well-off Silver Lake elementary school, there were fewer than a dozen students. [The New York Times]• Meet Roxana Dueñas, the Boyle Heights teacher who has become the face of the protest. [The Los Angeles Times]• Rain caused chaos across the state. The storm triggered a 19-car pileup in the Cajon Pass and sent rocks sliding in Malibu. A falling tree killed a man in Oakland. [The Los Angeles Times]• For the second morning in a row, an earthquake jolted awake East Bay residents. The U.S. Geological Survey estimated that it was a 3.5 magnitude. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Lisa Lerer, in the On Politics newsletter, wrote about Representative Nancy Pelosi’s “political flex.” (Plus an Arthur fist.) [The New York Times]• The San Francisco Gay Men’s Chorus purchased a $9.6 million, four-story building on Valencia Street for a planned national center for L.G.B.T.Q. arts and culture. It will have space for performances, rehearsal and meetings. [KQED]When the Rams take on the Saints on Sunday afternoon in New Orleans for the N.F.C. conference title, they’ll be led by a young quarterback named Jared Goff, who went to Cal and hails from a town called Novato.  I asked John Branch, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, to send a special dispatch from this town. I’ll let him explain why: Jared Goff’s hometown has not caught Goff Fever. I should know. I live there.And long before Goff, 24, was competing for a Super Bowl berth, he was a kid at Pleasant Valley Elementary School and Sinaloa Middle School (the Saints, alas), the same schools as my kids.His parents and grandparents still live here, within walking distance of each other — and me. But Novato, a suburb of about 50,000 people north of San Francisco, is a sleepy place. It does not excite easily.The last place I saw Goff’s name here was on the menu at Finnegan’s, a downtown pub. The Goff burger (pepperjack cheese, avocado, applewood bacon, chipotle mayo and Irish poppers on a half-pound of beef) sells for $16.50, with fries. I do not know if Goff has eaten it.When Goff was the first overall pick of the 2016 N.F.L. Draft, the marquee outside the middle school silently congratulated him. I asked my eighth grader on Wednesday if anyone at school had mentioned Goff’s name this week. She looked at me funny. No, she said.Should a town be buzzing about a local football star? I might worry more if it was.There are reasons Novato is not agog for Goff. One, it is chill California. We do not do “agog.” And this is mellow Marin County, which barely does “animated.”Two, Goff never starred on the fields here. He eschewed San Marin High, his neighborhood public school, to attend Marin Catholic, a football powerhouse a couple of towns away. He later played at Cal-Berkeley, just 30 minutes away, but not many people here pay close attention to Cal football.Three, Goff plays for the Rams, and this is 49ers and (for now) Raiders territory — although Marin County is the kind of place you are more likely to see a bumper sticker for a political cause than you are for a football team.Maybe it will be different if Goff reaches the Super Bowl, or wins a few of them. Come to think of it, Tom Brady is from San Mateo, on the other side of San Francisco, and I have not heard much about that town going crazy for him over the years, either.We’ll be off Monday for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. See you on Tuesday. California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe N.F.L. will pay considerably less than $10 million in its settlement of grievances filed by Colin Kaepernick and Eric Reid, according to two people with knowledge of the agreement who were not authorized to speak publicly.Specifics of the settlement were not disclosed when the deal was reached Feb. 15, ending an 18-month standoff over claims by Kaepernick and Reid, former teammates with the San Francisco 49ers, that they had been denied jobs in the league because they knelt through the national anthem before games. They accused the league’s 32 teams of colluding to keep them out of the sport.Much of the settlement will cover the fees of lawyers representing Kaepernick and Reid, one of the people with the knowledge of the agreement said Thursday, and the players will receive smaller, roughly equal amounts.The Wall Street Journal first reported the estimated amount of the settlement, which included a confidentiality agreement.An N.F.L. spokesman and one of Kaepernick’s lawyers declined to comment on Thursday, referring to the confidentiality agreement.Kaepernick, 31, a quarterback who led the 49ers to the Super Bowl in the 2012 season, has not played since the 2016 season, when he started to kneel in protest of racial injustice after several unarmed African-Americans were killed by the police. He filed a collusion grievance in October 2017, seven months after he became a free agent.Since he left the 49ers, no team has offered him a contract or brought him in for a tryout, even though quarterbacks with less impressive statistics were signed. In 2016, his last season in the league, Kaepernick earned $14.3 million. Through the grievance, he was seeking the compensation he might have earned had he been signed as a free agent in 2017. That theoretical amount, had he won the case, would have been doubled for damages.Reid, 27, a safety who joined Kaepernick in the 2016 protests, continued to kneel during the 2017 season. When he became a free agent in early 2018, he too was initially unable to find a new team. He filed his grievance in May 2018, sharing Kaepernick’s legal team, led by Mark Geragos.The league tried to have the cases thrown out, but in August 2018, an arbitrator said there was enough evidence to allow the grievances to proceed.This would have allowed the players’ lawyers to present their cases in something akin to a trial in front of the arbitrator. They were expected to call owners and league executives as witnesses in April.Reid returned to the N.F.L. about a month into last season, signing a one-year contract with the Carolina Panthers in September for a base salary of $823,000, far less than the $5.7 million he earned the year before with the 49ers. Reid resumed his protests and in the off-season signed a three-year extension worth about $22 million.Reid said that the contract did not change his contention that he had been blackballed and that he still believed that owners were colluding against Kaepernick. Even though he remained out of the game, Kaepernick’s fame only grew, and his case loomed over the N.F.L.Amnesty International gave him its Ambassador of Conscience award last spring, and as the season began, Kaepernick signed a multiyear deal with Nike that made him a face of the 30th anniversary of the sports apparel company’s “Just Do It” campaign. Kaepernick was featured on billboards and in television commercials.His presence was also felt at the Super Bowl. Several musical artists, saying they supported Kaepernick, promised not to appear at the halftime show if invited. The league ultimately hired Maroon 5.The league’s owners will gather for their annual meeting starting Sunday in Phoenix. At last year’s meeting, the news media focused heavily on Kaepernick’s absence and on the N.F.L.’s position on whether players should be required to stand on the field for the anthem.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen CrouseLOS ANGELES — A mariner could navigate Riviera Country Club by the stars that come out to the Genesis Open to behold Tiger Woods, who made his PGA Tour debut at this tournament when he was a 16-year-old amateur.All but one of his 12 starts in the event have come at Riviera, the Los Angeles course that Ben Hogan ruled in the 1940s but that Woods has never cracked, managing only one top-three finish.A Wednesday downpour — which ended up being a portent of Thursday’s wiped out first round — did not prevent spectators like Jared Goff, the Los Angeles Rams quarterback, and the actor Timothy Simons, of HBO’s “Veep,” from following Woods through his morning pro-am round.Neither of them, though, gave Woods the kind of affection he received from a seven-year-old yellow Labrador retriever named Quebec, who licked Woods’s face  when he stopped to talk briefly with the dog’s owner, Jake Olson.Quebec is the guide dog for Olson, a senior long snapper on the University of Southern California football team who is blind. After Woods greeted Olson, he leaned down to scratch Quebec’s ears and neck, inviting the face lapping.Olson asked how Woods’s three dogs were doing, and Woods’s response also neatly summarized his own status. “The old one is still hanging around,” he said.Woods, 43, now the host of the Genesis Open, ended a five-year victory drought in September at the Tour Championship, pulling within two wins of Sam Snead’s PGA Tour record of 82.Like Woods, Olson grew up roughly an hour’s drive south of Riveria, in neighboring Orange County. Olson lost his left eye to a rare form of cancer when he was 10 months old, and he was playing golf and football when the disease took his right eye at age 12 — but not before Woods won the 2008 United States Open in a 19-hole playoff, a sight seared in Olson’s memory.If Olson became an ardent fan of Woods on that Father’s Day weekend, Woods became a huge fan of Olson nine years later, when Olson snapped the ball for an extra point in U.S.C.’s 2017 season opener against Western Michigan. Two months later, Olson heard from Woods, receiving a typewritten note signed by the 14-time major winner.The letter, Olson said, described his college playing debut as an “uplifting moment” and congratulated him on his “great achievement.”The correspondence from Woods was “crazy special,” said Olson, who wrote back and told Woods that of all the magical doors that had swung open as a result of his college football cameos, that letter meant the most.“Kids my age grew up in awe of you,” Olson said, describing the message he sent to Woods.Someday, Olson said, he hopes to play in the Genesis pro-am.“I think if you just look at what he’s been able to accomplish, the fearlessness that he just attacks life with,” Woods said, “he doesn’t view himself as any different than any of us.”He added, “It’s inspiring.”To follow Woods on Wednesday, Olson let Quebec guide him. He also brushed the shoulder of his father, Brian, for support. As he walked the course, Olson stopped to pose for photographs with fans. Simons came over to introduce himself, as did Goff, which left Olson conflicted.“It was nice to meet him,” Olson, whose introduction to U.S.C. football came almost 10 years ago when Pete Carroll, now the Seattle Seahawks’ coach, invited him to become an unofficial cohort of the team, “but he played at Cal and he beat my Seahawks twice last season.”After graduating, Olson said, his plan is to play a few events organized by the United States Blind Golf Association and employ his father as his caddie.Charlie Sifford, the first African-American to play on the PGA Tour, won 50 years ago at Riviera, which helped inspire Woods’s father, Earl, to take up the game. That led to his son’s start in the sport, which created countless ripple effects.“My dad’s my caddie,” Olson told Woods, “and my inspiration is what you had with your dad.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — Most teams that win championships enjoy a honeymoon. There are parades and victory laps and time to prepare for a title defense.Not so with Atlanta United, which won its first M.L.S. Cup on Dec. 8 and, because of Major League Soccer roster rules, had to spend the next day releasing some of the players who led it to the title. In fact, from almost the moment the final whistle blew in Atlanta United’s 2-0 victory over the Portland Timbers, the club president, Darren Eales, has had to grapple with a host of changes, including finding a new coach, selling one of his team’s best players and juggling the remaking of a star-studded roster.At times, the off-season has seemed comically short. Atlanta United reconvened as a team and opened its preseason training camp in mid-January, then flew to California before the Super Bowl to prepare for a preseason friendly against Club Tijuana. Last week, Atlanta United lost to Costa Rica’s Herediano, 3-1, in the first stage of the Concacaf Champions League (the teams meet again in Atlanta on Thursday night), and on Sunday it opens its M.L.S. season against D.C. United in Washington.All of this meant Eales had to get his off-season work done quickly, and he has not wasted any time. On Jan. 14, Atlanta United introduced Frank de Boer, the former manager of Ajax, Inter Milan and Crystal Palace, as the replacement for Atlanta’s former coach, Tata Martino, who took over Mexico’s national team. Then Eales signed Josef Martínez, the league’s most valuable player last season, to a five-year contract extension. Soon after, Pity Martínez, a 25-year-old Argentine midfielder, was signed; that move allowed Eales to sell Atlanta’s playmaker, Miguel Almirón, to England’s Newcastle United for a reported $23 million, smashing the M.L.S. transfer record.Two days before the Super Bowl, the hyperkinetic Eales sat down at his favorite Atlanta coffee shop — appropriately named Octane — to discuss the team’s dizzying off-season, its sale of Almirón and whether, in fact, other teams in M.L.S. can copy the Atlanta model.You knew you were going to have a lot of holes to fill in the off-season. What was the process?When we went out and built the club, our intention was to be clear with the fans from the very start. We were going to attract players who were young, or going toward the prime of their career, rather than a last contract or a last hurrah for a player from Europe. The idea here is, we’re part of this global network of soccer clubs. Miggy came to us, he had two fantastic years, won the M.L.S. Cup in the second season, had tremendous success on the pitch, and then he got a chance to fulfill his dream to go to the Premier League and play for a club there. So obviously, it was good for him, good for the league, because now the league can say, ‘We have a mechanism for you to showcase yourself, so come to M.L.S., play in a short window, and when the right moment comes, you can move to a top league in Europe.’ That was the dream we sold, and we had to at least prove the concept because otherwise it was going to be difficult for us to recruit other players if we didn’t do that.This business model is routine elsewhere, but it’s still new to M.L.S. Wasn’t it hard to see Almirón go?Miggy delivered everything we could have expected, and we won an M.L.S. Cup. On top of that, we didn’t spend dead money on a player at the end of his contract and get nothing in return. We actually got well in excess of what we had spent on the player in the first place. So it makes good business sense, good sporting sense, and that was always the vision.You signed Josef Martínez to a contract extension, then acquired Pity Martínez, before you sold Almirón. Was that sequencing deliberate?We’re really pleased that we did the whole succession plan in reverse. We got our player in [Martínez] before we moved the player on to Europe [Almirón]. Hypothetically, if we first sold a player for $30 million and went out to buy a player, everyone’s going to quote us $30 million. It’s the nature of the beast. So to secure our replacement in advance with a number we were comfortable with, it gave us a little more carte blanche.You also had to replace Tata Martino, whose reputation was instrumental in attracting young players to Atlanta for the first year.When we sat there after winning the Cup, we knew the coach was going. The reality is, it’s no different than Nick Saban, who has said how he loses his coordinators every year but he doesn’t mind because he knows the replacements come in and work hard because they have a chance to move on. We can embrace that as a club. When coaches want to come to Atlanta, they can see that as well. Frank de Boer coached at Ajax, at Inter and Crystal Palace. For me, I’m really excited because certain coaches fit players. With Ajax, he had great success. He went into situations [at Inter and Crystal Palace] that weren’t good fits. But he was the right fit for us.A lot has had to go right: Not just the success on the field, but an owner with deep pockets, a new stadium, enthusiastic fans. You have all of that.Everyone’s been asking when soccer is going to succeed in America, but if you watched the Cup final, with 73,000 passionate fans who were tailgating all afternoon, with an exciting style of play, it really has happened in America already. It’s great for me because yes, I wanted to make Atlanta United a real success story. But we’re also part of the bigger story, which is growing the game of soccer in America, being the pioneers to hopefully one day make it one of the top leagues in the world.Can other M.L.S. teams replicate what you’ve done?I’m not sure about replicating, but like every other business, you look at what other businesses are doing successfully and try to take those things that might work. I’m a fan of how L.A.F.C. came into the league. You saw the way they filled out their roster; there were similarities. I wouldn’t say they were copying us, but there were similarities. That’s a good thing. We were in a strange situation as pioneers trying to grow the league. There will be more teams looking, when they think of their out-of-pocket expenditures, money above the cap, not just the salaries — there’s much more awareness around investing more than we would have in a transfer fee for a younger player because we might have a chance to make a profit, or make our investment back. That’s going to open up an avenue for a few more clubs.With all this activity, did you get a chance to take any time off this winter?My aim is to get to March, the international break. I promised the wife and family I’ll take a week off, and football won’t be mentioned. I’m hoping to get to the end of March and then I’ll crash.AdvertisementON SOCCERThe Manchester City forward discusses racism, the relentlessness of media stereotypes about black players and his decision to call out both after he was racially abused during a Premier League match in December.CreditCreditRobert CarterSupported byBy Rory SmithKNUTSFORD, England — That day, Raheem Sterling looked up, and tuned in. Ordinarily when he is on the field, he loses himself so completely in the game that the noise of the crowd becomes an indistinct murmur, each voice lost in the hum of tens of thousands.But as Sterling approached the touchline to collect the ball for a corner kick in Manchester City’s Premier League game at Chelsea on Dec. 8, something forced him to switch his focus.He remembers making eye contact with a handful of fans in the front row of the Matthew Harding Stand at Stamford Bridge. Like all players, and as one of his country’s best players, he is used to hostility, particularly away from home. But what he could see was different. It looked, to him, like hatred.“The way they were looking at me, I had to see where all this anger was coming from,” he said. “I was listening in to hear what they were saying.” What he picked up, he said, he dismissed immediately: “Nah, that can’t be what I heard.”Video suggested his suspicion was right. One fan, in particular, appeared to have screamed a racial obscenity at him. The consequences added credence: Not long after the game ended, Chelsea announced it had barred four fans from attending games, pending an investigation into whether Sterling had been racially abused. The incident was reported to the London police. It was neither Sterling’s first racist encounter — as a teenager, he once was head-butted by a stranger on a Liverpool street — nor the first time he had experienced racism in an English stadium. In his first match at Everton’s Goodison Park after joining Manchester City, he said, he was walking toward the tunnel when a boy with his father called him a “black something.”As he left Stamford Bridge that evening in December, though, Sterling, 24, kept churning over what he had heard, what had happened. By the time he returned to Manchester, he decided that it was “too much now.” He wanted to say something.He spent all night thinking of the best way to do it. He did some research, got his thoughts in order. The next morning, as he sat in the back seat of a car on the 30-minute drive from his home to Manchester City’s training facility, he composed a 207-word message to accompany his thoughts. It focused not just on what had happened at Stamford Bridge, but why. Sterling posted it, with two images, to his Instagram account.“I am not normally the person to talk a lot,” the message began. “But when I think I need my point to be heard I will speak up.”A few weeks ago, Sterling returned to visit friends near Wembley, the part of northwest London where he grew up. He remains intimately connected to the place: He said he was in discussions with the local council to find an appropriate site for a sporting and educational institute, somewhere to provide opportunities for children (and their parents) from backgrounds similar to his.It is a personal and, until now, a private thing, something he says is less his responsibility as a professional athlete and more an innate desire to “show light” to a new generation. He wants his story to give others like him hope.“Not just to be a footballer,” Sterling said, “but to do whatever they want to do.”It is not hard to find inspiration in Sterling’s rise. His story has long been crowbarred into the narrative often expected of athletes: the deprived upbringing, the triumph over adversity, that comforting fairy tale told of so many athletes in which greatness flowers best in soil left untended.His father was shot dead in Jamaica when he was 2. His mother moved to England in the hope of giving her children a better life. Sterling remembers her “fight to get jobs,” the long hours she put in, the days he and his sister would help her clean hotel rooms before school.Sterling has always been keen not to allow exaggerations to flourish, to correct any poetic license taken by those telling his story. In 2016, he told The Mail on Sunday that his childhood home was not in a “rough, rough” area; in a piece for The Players’ Tribune last year, he said that while his family never had much money, his mother always made sure he and his sister had what they needed.He knows well enough where he came from. He could see Wembley Stadium from his garden, but there were plenty of other places where the horizon was far more oppressive. The last time he went back, he said in an interview last week, he looked at those streets not far from where he had grown up, those high-rises, and saw “a prison, with no way out.”His meteoric rise to being one of the finest English players of his generation should, then, be a cause for celebration for England. At 15, Liverpool beat back competition from Arsenal and Manchester United to sign Sterling from Queens Park Rangers. By the time he was 17, he had made his debut for England. Before he was 20, he had been selected for a World Cup.In 2015, Manchester City made him, for a time, the most expensive English player in history, paying 49 million pounds, or about $63.7 million, to pry him from Anfield at the express recommendation of Pep Guardiola. Guardiola would not arrive in England to become City’s manager for another year, but he knew that he wanted to work with Sterling.The collaboration has proved enormously successful. Sterling has won a Premier League title — with another in his grasp this season — and he played a key role in England’s run to the World Cup semifinals last summer. City rewarded him with a new contract a few months ago, at least partly to ward off interest from Real Madrid. He has more than lived up to his promise. Guardiola described him as “incredible.”Few, though, would suggest England has cherished Sterling. A frosty reception at Anfield may be unavoidable since his departure, but he attracts opprobrium elsewhere, too. He has been jeered by his own fans while playing for England and was attacked and racially abused by a Manchester United supporter on the doorstep of City’s training facility. One newspaper, after England’s elimination from Euro 2016 by Iceland, called Sterling a “footie idiot.” It was not an epithet attached to any other player on that squad.Sterling has no doubt why such hostility has taken root.“From the very start of my career, there has been a perception of a flashy kid from London: loves cars, loves the flashy lifestyle,” he said. “I’m not saying I’m a saint or anything, but that is the complete opposite of who I am.“These people do not know me. They will define me by what they read about me; that is how they will treat me. When people are making the public believe you are a character you aren’t, that is hurtful, and it is degrading.”Nor has he any doubt why that picture has been built up: The way he is covered, the way he is presented by the news media, is rooted in the fact that he is black. “One million percent,” he said.It is that conviction that led him to take the risk, and to speak up, to become part of the global conversation — led by the likes of Colin Kaepernick and LeBron James — about equality. The example that sticks with Sterling is the one about his cars. In 2016, a handful of Britain’s tabloids ran articles that claimed he was “looking for a seventh car so that he has one for each day of the week.” None of them quoted Sterling on that particular ambition. Each ran a set of pictures of the forward behind the wheel of various vehicles.“These were cars that I had had between the ages of 17 and 23,” he said. “But they made it that Raheem has one for Monday, one for Tuesday, and so on. All these cars are gone, sold. But what do you do when you sell a car? You buy a new one. But they have a picture of me in each car, so the story is that I drive a car each day. People see that and think that’s what he’s up to — buying cars, living the best life.”For the record, Sterling said, he currently has one car, and his partner, Paige Milian, has another. He is, he said, “in the process of selling mine, to get a more subtle one.”It is not just the cars, though. Sterling has made headlines for, variously: flying on a budget airline; eating at Greggs, a British sandwich chain; and shopping at Poundland, a discount shop.Whenever one of these articles emerges, his friends send him a link — accompanied by a host of laughing emojis — on their group chat. Sometimes Sterling laughs, too. “There is a lot more going on in this world than me going to Greggs,” he said.The endlessness of it, though, wears him down. “What is the need for it?” he said. “What is the need for this story? Sometimes you ask what the motive is.”More pernicious than the content of the articles, in his mind, is the way they are framed: the little asides, the giddy, superfluous mentions of his weekly wage and, in particular, the dog-whistle words — the hints that this young, successful, high-profile black footballer is not spending the money he has earned correctly, or that he has not earned it at all.“It is not just me,” he said. “Whenever you see a report on a black player or a black entertainer it has to end up with money, or bling, or cars, or something flashy. With a successful white person, it is nice, short, sweet, what a lovable person. Name me one white player who is thought of as ‘blingy.’”Cristiano Ronaldo’s name is offered. “If he is showing you his car, showing he is on top of the world, if that is what he puts out, then call him flashy. But I’m not showing you that, so why are you calling me that?“It is a stereotype of black people: chains and jewelry, bling and money. These are words that are associated with black people. If I was showing 10 cars on my driveway, if I was on Instagram biting my gold chain, or with two Rolexes on, you can call me flashy. But you can’t label me as that if I am not portraying that.”That was the trend Sterling identified in the Instagram post he composed in the car the day after the racist incident at Stamford Bridge: the steady drip of stories and details that paint a distorted and stereotypical picture of black players. Where a white player (Phil Foden) buying his family a house is portrayed as sensible and covered without embellishment, a report about a black player (Tosin Adarabioyo) doing the same is laced with hints of unearned excess.Sterling noted, too, that when he flew on a budget airline he was not described as humble or praised for his pragmatism and parsimony: “It was: ‘You have got all this money — why are you on easyJet?’ ”It is a subject that Sterling has thought a lot about. He has discussed it at length with Aidy Ward, his agent and favored sounding board, and with his captain at City, Vincent Kompany.“Vinnie made a really good point,” Sterling said. “He said it’s not the fault of the people writing the stories: It is because there are not enough black and minority ethnic people in high office in the media.“If there was someone else of Jamaican descent who the people writing the stories have to answer to, they would look at it and say, ‘It can’t run because of how it will look.’ They would understand this side of the story. They have lived on this side of the world. They understand how these people feel.“For someone who has never felt certain things, you can’t make that change. I am not saying the papers are doing it on purpose. They might not know they are doing it in a racist way. I would say it is more just not thinking. That’s why I said in that post that people need to be careful of what is written, how they write, the little words.“The people that read it take it in and judge straightaway who the person is. That is where I was coming from. I was not saying they are racist. But they are fueling it for the people reading it. It is constant, and I don’t think it is fair, but who am I?”It is an apposite question, the answer to which changed, fundamentally, that day in December. Footballer and father are the first two that come to Sterling’s mind, but it is the broader scope of who he is, and who he can be, that most engages him.He takes inspiration from Jay-Z, someone who “made money, and then looked for the next generation, put everything in place to find someone to follow him.” He continued: “If I don’t do it, if the one after me doesn’t do it, it will just keep going. When football is finished, will I live off what I did on the field? No. I want to be able to help people be the best they can be.”What he has realized, though, is that for him — for anyone — to have any effect, the playing field has to be level. Black success should not come with a caveat or an asterisk. That is what made him write that post. It is what made him speak up. “I just wanted people to pause and think,” he said. He wanted to challenge the news media to “do better.” Just as he did, he wanted those who create these images, who perpetuate the stereotypes, to look up, and to tune in.Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.  @RorySmith Advertisement

      By CHRIS STANFORD

FEB. 22, 2019

Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the question about William Barr had the highest share of correct answers, with 90 percent. Only 44 percent knew the answer to the question about Hungary’s efforts to limit immigration.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The Trump administration said it planned to terminate a federal transportation grant of more than $900 million to which state?CaliforniaFloridaNew YorkTexasA showdown over shipments of humanitarian aid to Venezuela is centered on a bridge that the government has blocked at the border with which country?BrazilColombiaEcuadorGuyanaThe government of which country has threatened to revoke the citizenship of Shamima Begum, a 19-year-old woman who traveled to Syria to marry an Islamic State fighter four years ago?AustraliaBritainCanadaFranceKarl Lagerfeld, the designer who helped to redefine luxury fashion, died on Tuesday. (He was thought to be 85, although his birth year was disputed.)Mr. Lagerfeld was the longtime creative director at two fashion houses. One was Fendi. What was the other?ChanelGucciPradaYves Saint LaurentPope Francis defrocked Theodore McCarrick, a former cardinal, after he was found guilty of sexual abuse, the first time an American cardinal has been removed from the priesthood.Mr. McCarrick is also the former archbishop of which city?ChicagoDetroitPhiladelphiaWashingtonWhich world leader did President Trump say had nominated him for the Nobel Peace Prize?Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of JapanPrime Minister Theresa May of BritainChancellor Angela Merkel of GermanyPresident Vladimir Putin of RussiaIn a unanimous decision this week, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution limits what?Capital punishment for the intellectually disabledThe collection of citizenship dataLibel protections for public officialsThe seizure of private propertyBill Weld said he would form an exploratory committee to challenge President Trump for the Republican Party’s 2020 nomination.Mr. Weld is the former governor of which state?MaineMassachusettsNew HampshireRhode IslandWhich landmark opened to the public at night this week, for the first time since 1925?The Forbidden CityThe Hagia SophiaThe Taj MahalThe Tower of LondonHeather Nauert withdrew from consideration for which position, citing family concerns?Member of the Federal Trade CommissionState Department spokeswomanU.S. ambassador to the United NationsWhite House communications directorThe National Football League reached a legal settlement in a long-running case involving which player?Colin KaepernickPeyton ManningTony RomoHines WardAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaOver the past four years, some of the most damning secrets of the professional soccer industry have been exposed by a deluge of leaks that have shined an unflattering light on some of the sport’s most popular clubs, players and coaches.Last week the man behind the leaks, a 30-year-old Portuguese citizen named Rui Pinto, was arrested in Budapest, Hungary. He faces extradition to his home country on the charges, which include an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fund that had bet millions of dollars in the player transfer market.For the moment, though, Pinto’s fate depends on a far narrower matter: whether his team of lawyers can successfully argue that he is a whistle-blower under Hungarian law — a defendant whose actions to expose malpractice and, potentially, a raft of financial and other crimes in soccer outweigh any offenses he might have committed.In the view of the Portuguese authorities, Pinto is guilty of extortion and violation of secrecy in relation to his contact with the investment fund, Doyen Sports. They and Doyen have accused him of threatening to publish internal company documents — revealing transfer fees and secret payments — unless the fund paid him to keep the documents private.Those documents, which offered a window into both Doyen’s business model and its bank accounts, were later published on the website known as Football Leaks. The revelations, along with a number of player contracts posted on the site, exposed a murky world of soccer finance that was at best unsavory and at worst in violation of national and international soccer regulations.Ultimately, Pinto turned over about 70 million documents and 3.4 terabytes of information to a German newsmagazine, Der Spiegel, which shared documents with a select group of news media outlets who published reports on their contents.Now that Pinto has been arrested on a Portuguese warrant, his case represents a high-profile test of a Hungarian law passed in 2014 that affords special protection to whistle-blowers. His lawyers plan to argue that the leads his leaked documents provided to a variety of European law enforcement organizations outweigh Pinto’s actions.“Based on the leaks, there have been some extremely important criminal investigations opened with prosecutions in various countries,” said William Bourdon, Pinto’s lawyer, who previously has represented the national-security whistle-blower Edward Snowden. “Without Pinto, this wouldn’t have been possible.”Those investigations include several tax cases in Spain, where top soccer stars, including Cristiano Ronaldo, have been prosecuted for tax evasion after Football Leaks revealed details of the complicated structures through which they received millions of dollars in salaries and image rights. (Pinto’s lawyers said that he also has been in contact with French financial crimes prosecutors since late 2016.)More recently, Football Leaks disclosures have targeted the FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, and the ways some top clubs might have circumvented the sport’s financial regulations. The revelations also led to the reopening of a sexual assault case against Ronaldo.Unlike in most whistle-blower cases, however, Pinto has no official connection with the soccer industry — no access to clubs’ books or a players’ contracts — beyond being a fan of the game.“For me, it doesn’t make a difference considering what is the basis of whistle-blower protection: the intensity of the contribution to the public interest,” Bourdon said. “This is the key point.”Bourdon said Pinto already had agreed to assist the authorities in Switzerland, and that Germany’s tax agency was seeking access to his information, too. But it is the decision of a Hungarian judge that matters most to him at the moment, since that will determine whether or not he avoids extradition to Portugal.“We expect the Hungarian judge to be sensitive to the paradoxical situation,” Bourdon said, “that on one hand he’s being prosecuted in Portugal, while on the other he has been providing assistance to prosecutors in other countries.”Bourdon said that he sees little difference between Pinto and one of his former clients, Hervé Falciani, who leaked account details of clients of the British bank HSBC while he worked in Geneva. Falciani’s disclosures, which shook the secretive world of Swiss banking, revealed accounts containing more than $100 billion, and led to the bank’s agreeing to pay 300 million euros (about $340 million) to French authorities to settle a tax-evasion investigation.Spain’s high court last September rejected an extradition request for Falciani — once labeled the Edward Snowden of banking — from Switzerland.In addition to Pinto’s extradition, the Portuguese police have demanded the entirety of the computer equipment seized from him in Hungary. Bourdon called that an overreach because their case is limited to the suspected 2015 extortion attempt.Bourdon acknowledged that Pinto had attempted to make contact with Doyen once he had the company’s documents, but he said the extortion charges were not valid because Pinto ultimately “didn’t follow through” with an operation to secure a payment.Bourdon described the charges as “a tool to criminalize him, to target him as an offender and not a whistle-blower.”Little is known about Pinto. A Der Spiegel reporter, Rafael Buschman, is the only journalist known to have contact with an individual connected with Football Leaks. Buschman has written a series of breathless accounts and a book detailing his relationship with a man he referred to as “John.” Der Spiegel has not confirmed Pinto is its source.But a September report by the Portuguese magazine Sabado reported Pinto was the “computer genius” behind Football Leaks. Shortly after its article was published, a message was posted on Football Leaks’ Facebook page that appeared to taunt Portuguese authorities, signing off with “#catchmeifyoucan.”In a video posted to websites including YouTube after a court appearance in Budapest last week, Pinto, dressed in a brown leather jacket and jeans, appeared relaxed as he sat on a wooden bench outside the courtroom with his hands cuffed in front of him. Pinto’s lawyers managed to secure house arrest for him until the judge delivers a verdict.“Jurisprudence and regulations say there is a question of proportionality between the seriousness of the offense and the importance to public interest,” Bourdon said. “You could violate the law, could be hacking, or stealing, and if the contribution is tremendous then it’s not a crime.“It will be a historic decision for a Hungarian judge to make.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Austin ConsidineThis article was updated to reflect new developments.Hae. Adnan. Jay. For months beginning in late 2014, much of America was on first-name basis with the central figures in Season 1 of “Serial,” the true-crime podcast hosted by Sarah Koenig that became a pop culture obsession. Downloaded more than 100 million times, the series helped to bring podcasting into the mainstream and, along with TV series like “The Jinx” and “Making a Murderer,” kick-started a wave of serialized true-crime whodunits that shows no signs of ebbing.Revelations in “Serial” also helped advance the real-life case itself: the 1999 murder of Hae Min Lee, a Baltimore County high school senior, for which her ex-boyfriend Adnan Syed was convicted. “The Case Against Adnan Syed,” a four-part documentary series debuting Sunday on HBO, revisits that case, which has evolved considerably in the past several years.If you don’t remember who Asia McClain is, or why she is important, you probably aren’t alone — the details of this case were fuzzy from the start. Here’s a refresher on the basics, along with updates on what has happened since “Serial.”On Jan. 13, 1999, Hae Min Lee left Woodlawn High School and never came home. About a month later, her body was found partially buried in nearby Leakin Park, at Baltimore’s western edge. The cause of death was strangulation. A police investigation led to Lee’s ex-boyfriend and classmate Adnan Syed. Syed pleaded not guilty and was convicted in 2000 of first-degree murder and kidnapping. He was sentenced to life in prison and has maintained his innocence ever since.[Maryland’s highest court said there would be no retrial for Adnan Syed. Details are here.]Lee and Syed came from conservative immigrant families — Lee Korean, Syed Pakistani — and felt compelled to keep their romance a secret. Not long before Lee disappeared, she had broken up with Syed and begun dating a co-worker named Don. Part of what seems to have driven her and Syed apart was her frustration over not being able to bring their relationship into the open.Lee and Syed were well liked at school. Lee played lacrosse and field hockey and was described by a teacher as “one of those rare people you meet in life who is always happy, always joyful and full of love,” The Baltimore Sun reported. Syed played on the football team and was, by most accounts, a happy, charismatic young man who got excellent grades. He talked in “Serial” of smoking weed, but there was no indication he was into anything more extreme.Prosecutors relied heavily on a few main pieces of evidence, none of it physical. The most important was testimony by a friend of Adnan’s named Jay Wilds, who told the police he had helped Syed to bury Lee’s body after Syed confessed to killing her, on Jan. 13. According to Wilds’s court testimony, Syed had told him earlier that day that he intended to kill Lee. Wilds then borrowed Syed’s car for the day.Later, Wilds said, Syed called him and asked to meet in a Best Buy parking lot. Wilds said that Syed had showed up driving Lee’s car, with her body in the trunk, asking for help. They eventually abandoned Lee’s car in a residential lot, he said.Prosecutors presented cellphone tower records, which they said helped confirm Wilds’s final version of events. (His testimony had changed on several important points over time.) Another witness, Jennifer Pusateri, also helped confirm parts of Wilds’s testimony; she told the court that Wilds told her that Syed had shown him Lee’s body and had confessed to the murder.Perhaps the biggest revelation in “Serial” was the existence of an alibi witness for Syed, a young woman named Asia McClain, who has said she was with him at the Woodlawn Public Library. If true, it would match Syed’s version of events. She was never called to testify.Wilds gave two recorded police interviews and testimony in court. Inconsistencies on several major details have been pointed out among the three accounts. The credibility of the cellphone records — their technical reliability and their harmony with the prosecution’s timeline — has also been called into question. (Here’s a helpful comparison between the phone records and some key testimonies.)Physical evidence gathered in 1999 was never tested for Syed’s DNA. The reasons for that aren’t clear, but Syed has reportedly said that his lawyer, Maria Cristina Gutierrez, never told him about the evidence. She was later disbarred by consent, in 2001, after a series of client complaints emerged. At the time of her disbarment, she told The Baltimore Sun she had been struggling with multiple sclerosis. She died in 2004.The Season 1 finale of “Serial” revealed that the Innocence Project Clinic at the University of Virginia Law School was looking at the case, and  hoped to persuade the courts to finally initiate DNA tests on the physical evidence.By March 2018, “Serial” had been downloaded more than 175 million times. Koenig’s investigations had offered no clear opinion on Syed’s guilt, but they had brought to light the potential holes in the prosecution’s case and intensified public pressure to re-examine it. For many “Serial” listeners, the revelations made Syed something of a cause celebre. (The court has said that public pressure was not a factor in its decision.)That month, a state appeals court vacated Syed’s conviction, upholding a June 2016 decision by a Baltimore City court that had granted him a new trial. The judges cited ineffective legal counsel by Gutierrez for, among other things, failing to call McClain, the potential alibi witness. McClain stated in an affidavit that she had sent Syed two letters after his arrest, which Syed has said prompted him to ask Gutierrez to contact her. Gutierrez later told him she had, and that nothing had come of it. That entire statement was later discovered to be untrue.But on Friday afternoon, the Maryland Court of Appeals reversed the lower appellate court’s decision and reinstated Syed’s conviction. In its opinion, the panel agreed that Syed’s counsel had been “deficient” but did not believe it had resulted in prejudice, “given the totality of the evidence against” Syed.HBO has said that its new series, directed by Amy Berg, contains “new discoveries as well as groundbreaking revelations that challenge the state’s case.”Lee’s family has always maintained that Syed’s conviction was just.“We do not speak as often or as loudly as those who support Adnan Syed, but we care just as much about this case,” the Lee family said in a statement shortly after the new trial was granted. “We continue to grieve. We continue to believe justice was done when Mr. Syed was convicted of killing Hae.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the date when Adnan Syed was granted a new trial. It was in June 2016, not 2018.OpinionErnesto LondoñoAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret LyonsNo matter how much free time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you. Come back every Friday for new suggestions on what to watch.‘The Puppy Bowl’ When to watch: Sunday at 3 p.m., on Animal Planet.This is Puppy Bowl XV, and this year’s festivities include a sloth referee, kangaroo joey cheerleaders, porcupines, a capybara and of course the kitten halftime show — and that’s just during the regular Puppy Bowl. There’s also a “training camp” special, a separate Dog Bowl for adult dogs and a pregame show. None of this is particularly high-impact viewing, but dropping in for 10 or 20 minutes of fluff time never hurt anyone.‘The World’s Most Extraordinary Homes’When to watch: Now, on Netflix.A new batch of four episodes does what “Extraordinary” does best: It makes you wish you lived in a glamorous, unique house far away from all this, with a sturdy sexual companion and unshakable fiscal stability, letting your architect create a “conversation” with the landscape while your children develop their natural senses of adventure and artistry. Solo House 2, in Spain, is a standout, but all the houses are stunning. More important, they are hugely different from one another. The show doesn’t get old even if one’s profound real estate envy does.‘The ABC Murders’ When to watch: Starting Friday, on Amazon.John Malkovich is your new Hercule Poirot in this lavish three-part mini-series. At this point, there are a lot of terrific shows set in England in the 1930s, including mysteries, and they all look terrific and lavish — even during the scenes set in the cruddy part of town or in disreputable establishments. “The ABC Murders” sets itself apart with its sound design, so full and specific that even a loaf of bread has an audio component. Bread!AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ed O’LoughlinDUBLIN — The head of a mummified Crusader, laid to rest in a Dublin church some 800 years ago, was stolen and a crypt vandalized, the police in Ireland discovered on Monday.A second mummified body, believed to belong to a nun who died 300 years ago, was also badly damaged during a break-in at St. Michan’s church.But the worst treatment was reserved for the crypt’s most famous occupant, a 13th-century corpse known as “The Crusader.”“His legs were pushed up into his torso, his arms were moved to one side and his head has been decapitated,” said the Rev. David Pierpoint, the vicar of St. Michan’s and archdeacon of Dublin. “His head is gone.”The police are still investigating the theft, but church officials are focused on retrieving the head.“My biggest concern is to have the severed head of the Crusader returned to us in any form,” Mr. Pierpoint said, “so we can let him rest in peace.”The intruders also defiled a section of the crypt that contains the bodies of the family of William Rowan Hamilton, a 19th-century mathematician who paved the way for modern quantum theory. One of the coffins was broken open and its contents were dragged out on the floor.St. Michan’s, originally founded in 1095, is one of the most historic parish churches for Ireland’s Anglican congregation, the Church of Ireland, and is on the north side of the city center.Its crypt is made of limestone, which draws the moisture out of the air inside, and its methane-rich soil reduces oxygen levels, making the atmosphere inside ideal for preservation. Many of the bodies laid to rest there have mummified.St. Michan’s attracts around 28,000 paying visitors a year, who come to tour its small but historically significant interior, which includes the organ on which George Frideric Handel wrote his “Messiah” oratorio, and view the mummified bodies in their open coffins.In the last century, visitors were even allowed to shake the Crusader’s leathery hand “for good luck.”“We don’t know his name, but we know he’s about 800 years old and was probably a local parishioner,” said Mr. Pierpoint.Because of the way the body was positioned — with arms and legs crossed, a common burial ritual for those who had taken part in the religious wars of the era — historians determined he had taken part in the Crusades.He was also incredibly tall for the time, standing around 6 feet 6 inches tall, according to Mr. Pierpoint.The Church of Ireland authorities say they have been inundated with offers of financial support following news of the break-in, but worry they may have to close the crypt permanently after the robbery.Another section of the crypt was sealed after being vandalized in 1996 by three teenagers who broke in, dragged corpses into the churchyard and played football with the head of a little girl.Mr. Pierpoint said he initially believed this week’s incident had been a similarly mindless act of vandalism, but he has since changed his mind.Whoever attacked the church “came prepared, with crowbars and tools,” he said, which were used to remove solid iron and steel slabs from the front of the crypt. “My mind can’t get around the insanity of it, that anyone could do such a thing.”The police said that they believed the break-in took place sometime over the weekend, but detailed forensic examinations are being carried out on the scene. Some of the robbery was also captured on CCTV footage.The motive is still unclear, but the church authorities say they don’t believe there is any commercial market for such stolen relics.There are fears that the ancient head, unless recovered quickly, will quickly disintegrate once exposed to air with normal moisture levels.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byChargers 23, Ravens 17By Bill PenningtonBALTIMORE — The Baltimore Ravens’ startling charge into the playoffs was spurred by something perhaps even more surprising: a radical, run-first style of offense led by the rookie quarterback Lamar Jackson.Baltimore’s unconventional style of attack in the midst of a pass-happy N.F.L. era rescued the Ravens, who won six of their final seven regular-season games. And the most impressive victory in that stretch was a 12-point romp over the Chargers in Los Angeles in Week 16.In the end, however, the defeat of the Chargers was the Ravens’ undoing in their rematch here Sunday in an A.F.C. wild-card playoff game.In the week leading up to Sunday’s contest, the Chargers dissected the videotape of the Ravens’ Dec. 22 triumph in Los Angeles until every play and, more important, the alignments before every play were committed to memory. The Chargers’ defensive coaches schooled the players on every Ravens tendency and tried a daring lineup that included seven defensive backs instead of the usual four or five.The study and the strategy worked. Until a late rally in the final minutes, Baltimore’s new-look offense had just 3 points and three first downs. Jackson was challenged and confounded into a dreadful performance as Los Angeles built a commanding lead and held on to upset the Ravens, 23-17.“We had better reads on their formations, and we saw things coming,” Chargers defensive end Joey Bosa said in the winning locker room. “It really was kind of a blessing to have played them and seen them just a few weeks ago.”The Chargers’ defensive approach forced Jackson into three fumbles — one of which he lost — and an interception. He was sacked seven times.“You could see we were frustrating them,” Los Angeles cornerback Casey Hayward Jr. said. “They were confused. What had been working for them was not working.”Or, as Chargers Coach Anthony Lynn said when asked if the Ravens had appeared flustered: “If you’re used to running the ball for 300 yards and you get only 80, yeah, you get flustered.”Los Angeles, which has won its last seven road games, will travel to New England to face the Patriots in a divisional-round game Sunday at 1 p.m.For the Chargers, the rare alignment of seven defensive backs, which replaced bulky linebackers with smaller, fleet defenders, was a risk. But it was intended to thwart Jackson’s advanced rushing skills.“Lamar is so fast, we wanted our fastest guys defending him, even if it meant smaller guys,” Lynn said. “We didn’t know if it would work, but we wanted to take a look at it.“We were definitely ready to move onto a different defensive grouping if it didn’t work. But it did.”Indeed, it was effective immediately and set the tone for the game. On the first play from scrimmage, Jackson kept the football and tried to dash around right end. He was tackled for a 1-yard loss by safety Derwin James.Recalling the play, Lynn smiled broadly.“The first time we played them, we played their game,” he said. “Today, we played our game.”For the Ravens, the loss brought a sudden end to a season marked by drastic change. The longtime Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco was overtaken by Jackson, who remains the franchise’s top quarterback moving forward. John Harbaugh, whose job as Baltimore’s head coach had seemed in jeopardy until the late surge by the Ravens, still may not remain.Flacco did not comment on his future Sunday, although he insisted that he did not think he should have replaced Jackson as the Ravens fell behind Los Angeles by 17 points. Harbaugh also declined to discuss his own future in detail.“No one can say what tomorrow is going to bring,” Harbaugh said. “We’ll see. I have every expectation to be here as long as they want me here.”The victory was also a subtle but authoritative accomplishment by the veteran Chargers quarterback Philip Rivers, who was appearing in his 10th postseason game. Rivers, who completed 22 of 32 passes, coolly and carefully led the Los Angeles offense on six scoring drives against the N.F.L.’s top-ranked defense.Rivers did not throw an interception and was sacked just once. And while the Chargers lost one fumble, they were otherwise judicious with the football and exhibited the kind of ball-control offense that had been Baltimore’s bread and butter in its charge to the playoffs.Advancing cautiously for most of the game, Los Angeles kicked four field goals to take a 12-0 halftime lead. In the third quarter, a Chargers turnover and a blocked punt by the Ravens gave Baltimore a brief surge of momentum. But the Ravens could turn the miscues into only 3 points when a fumble recovery by C. J. Mosley led to a 33-yard Justin Tucker field goal. After the Ravens’ Buck Allen partially blocked a punt and gave Baltimore good field position, the possession led only to a 50-yard field-goal attempt that Tucker missed.On the ensuing Chargers possession, a 28-yard pass from Rivers to Mike Williams, followed by a 14-yard run by Melvin Gordon, set up a third down from the Ravens’ 1-yard line. Gordon was tripped and fell just before the goal line; the play was ruled a touchdown until it was overturned by video replay.On the subsequent fourth-down play, Gordon bulled into the end zone. The Chargers completed a 2-point conversion to extend their lead to 20-3.At this point, fans at M&T Bank Stadium began chanting Flacco’s name. Jackson remained in the game, but his presence elicited a chorus of boos from the crowd. That displeasure intensified when Jackson was twice sacked on a three-and-out series.But on the next series, Jackson awakened and tossed a 31-yard touchdown pass to Michael Crabtree with 6 minutes 33 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter. On the Ravens’ next possession, Jackson connected with Crabtree again, throwing a 7-yard touchdown pass that cut the Chargers’ lead to 23-17 with 1:59 left.The Ravens did get the football for a final series, but their comeback ended when Jackson was stripped of the football as he was preparing to pass. The fumble was recovered by the Chargers’ Melvin Ingram, who dominated the Ravens’ offensive line throughout Sunday’s game. Ingram had seven tackles and two sacks.“This was and was not a typical game for us,” Rivers said afterward. “Because we’ve had all kinds of victories — ugly ones, pretty ones, good games offensively and good games defensively. That’s just us. But mostly, I think we’re a pretty good team.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ben ShpigelKANSAS CITY, Mo. — The last time the Chiefs hosted the Indianapolis Colts in the playoffs, the day broke sunny and mild, with barely a breeze. On his drive to Arrowhead Stadium that January morning in 2004, Kansas City quarterback Trent Green, hoping that a rainy chill would greet the visitors from a domed stadium, rued the weather.“I knew we would have to score a bunch of points,” Green said.The Chiefs, the highest-scoring team in the N.F.L., did: 31, a nick above their season average, and never punted. Neither, though, did the Colts. With Peyton Manning operating in ideal conditions, they scored 38.If what’s past is prologue, especially for a franchise with a postseason ledger as ghastly as Kansas City’s, then the Chiefs who will face Indianapolis in the divisional round on Saturday at Arrowhead are at risk of continuing a trend that doomed them 15 years ago.The team that wrecked the N.F.L. with an offense so potent that it recalibrated how football is played in 2018 — scoring the most points and gaining the most yards and throwing the most touchdowns — also fielded one of the worst defenses that has ever made the playoffs.[Read our predictions for the divisional round.]The Chiefs’ defense finished last or second-to-last in passing yards (4,374), total yards (6,488) and yards per rush (5.0). The Chiefs gave up the most first downs ever, with 419. And though they ranked 24th in points ceded, with 421, only three other teams since 1990, when the playoffs expanded to include six teams from each conference, gave up that many and still advanced to the postseason.According to Pro Football Reference, only 13 of the other 173 teams to reach the playoffs since 1990 have fared worse than the Chiefs in at least one of those statistical categories, including Green’s group from the 2003 season, which allowed 5.2 yards per carry. Aside from Kansas City, the only others to earn a No. 1 seed were Green Bay and New England in 2011, and neither won the Super Bowl. In fact, only one of the 13 — excluding the 2018 Rams, who allowed the most yards per rush this season — won a championship: the 2006 Colts, whose strong pass defense offset their generosity against the run.Plus, they had that Manning guy.The Chiefs have a guy, too — Patrick Mahomes — and that’s a pretty strong counterargument. But it’s not an impenetrable one, as losses to the Chargers (Kansas City led by 14 with less than nine minutes left) and the Seahawks (Seattle ran for 210 yards) proved.It’s difficult identifying a historical analogue to the 2018 Chiefs, a team of such extremes. The closest might be the 2011 Packers, whose leading receiver, Greg Jennings, recognized the similarities at once. Like the Chiefs, Green Bay created a load of turnovers — a league-high 38 — while also scoring the most points. The Packers also gave up more passing yards and total yards than Kansas City did this season.“The defense recognized it more than even we did as an offense,” Jennings, now an analyst for Fox, said of the imbalance. “What needed to be done was what we did. We recognized it and we had to make up for it.”The Packers went 15-1 before sputtering in their first playoff game, against the Giants, whose offensive coordinator, Kevin Gilbride, as could be expected, cared only about Green Bay’s schemes and personnel and not its defensive rankings. He said those were skewed by all the yardage they allowed when leading. Three weeks after exploiting the Packers’ blitzes, the Giants sustained long drives that “were almost as important as scoring,” Gilbride said, to batter New England’s defense in the Super Bowl. Both defenses, he said, outclassed the Chiefs’.“Oh, no question,” said Gilbride, who has analyzed Kansas City’s game film as part of his prep work for NBC’s broadcasts. “I think they’re vulnerable.”The Chiefs, for their part, seem aware of their inadequacies, especially in the secondary and at linebacker. Gilbride noted how the team’s defensive coordinator, Bob Sutton, has tried concealing them with deception, by mixing coverage schemes or calling more two high safety looks, intended to protect them against deep passes.Their strength is their pass-rush, which registered 52 sacks, and that just might be their path to glory. This season has demonstrated that the Chiefs’ defense need not always play well — it needs to play well only at certain times.Forcing turnovers and pressuring the quarterback are more important than preventing yardage. The Eagles’ Super Bowl victory against New England offered convincing evidence; the teams combined for a single punt, and the game turned on Philadelphia’s only sack, producing its only takeaway. The Chiefs’ 54-51 loss to the Rams this season, in a game with three defensive touchdowns, reinforced it.“Maybe you’re not playing as well as you’d like on defense,” Sutton said, “but you know, hey, we can rise up here and we get a stop here and a stop here, our offense can take care of this.”The offense has been so productive that the Chiefs have been ahead for 64.8 percent of the time they’ve been on the field — and by 11 points, or two possessions, more than half that time. They’ve played a staggering 799 defensive snaps when leading — 100 more than the next closest team, Chicago, according to Pro Football Reference.When trailing, offenses tend to throw more often, and against defenses willing to keep the play in front of them by conceding yardage. Green, an analyst for CBS, characterized Sutton’s philosophy as “bend don’t break,” though the Chiefs’ defense broke in their playoff loss last year, allowing three second-half touchdowns to Tennessee. And in their playoff loss two years ago, allowing 171 rushing yards to Pittsburgh but not a touchdown. And in their playoff loss five years ago, allowing 35 second-half points that erased a 38-10 third-quarter lead.That fiasco came against the Colts, too, but in Indianapolis. Reflecting on the Chiefs’ flop 15 years ago, Green blamed the offense — he missed some throws, a penalty negated a touchdown, a lost fumble erased Priest Holmes’s 48-yard run. He emphasized that he never once believed that the defense would constrain them.“We felt we could score on anybody,” Green said.Same with these Chiefs. They tallied at least 30 points in 12 of 16 games and averaged 32.4 at Arrowhead, where they closed the season by throttling Oakland, 35-3, in a performance that safety Eric Murray said felt “more cohesive” and “less segmented.”Murray said he was encouraged, but he will not know for sure until Saturday, when the Chiefs embark on a journey that, if it ends with confetti falling on them at Super Bowl LIII in Atlanta, will have defied nearly 30 years of statistical trends.Green still lives around here, and curious, he checked the game day forecast the other night: snow showers, mid-30s, 10-to-15-m.p.h. winds. He said he turned to his wife and laughed.“I was like, ‘Why couldn’t we have had this weather back then?’”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of times this season the Chiefs have scored at least 30 points. It is 12, not 13.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigel.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — C.J. Anderson has accomplished a good deal as a running back in the N.F.L. He rushed for more than 1,000 yards last season. He was a Pro Bowl selection in 2014, and a Super Bowl champion with the Denver Broncos. But the past nine months have been a different experience for him altogether.Since April, three teams have released him: the Broncos, the Carolina Panthers and the Oakland Raiders, who waived him in December without giving him a single carry. The Raiders, it should be noted, were atrocious this season.“It’s how you handle things,” Anderson said. “I always just kept my head down and kept pushing.”A new opportunity for him materialized last month when the Rams signed him as something of a stopgap measure. Todd Gurley II, their star running back, was sidelined with a knee injury, and Anderson suddenly found himself on the field for one of the best teams in the league. So he took the ball and rumbled with it, and he has been bulldozing defenders ever since.On Saturday night, Anderson paired with Gurley to form a punishing one-two running attack as the Rams advanced to the N.F.C. Championship Game with a 30-22 victory over the Dallas Cowboys. Anderson rushed for 123 yards on 23 carries, and Gurley finished with 115 yards on 16 carries. They also combined for three touchdowns, and whomever the Rams face next weekend — the Philadelphia Eagles or the New Orleans Saints — will need to concoct some sort of recipe to neutralize two runners with different styles.“Having both of them is special,” the quarterback Jared Goff said, “because it gives you a real dual threat of backs.”Gurley, a three-time Pro Bowl selection who rushed for 1,251 yards during the regular season, has speed and savvy, with an ability to bounce to the outside. Anderson, on the other hand, is not a sculpted piece of clay. He has curves, a runner who resembles Jerome Bettis more than he does Eric Dickerson. But if his center of gravity were any lower, he would be underground, and he bursts through the line of scrimmage like the Kool-Aid Man.Together, they made the Cowboys look hapless — a stunning turn of events for a defensive unit that had, only a week earlier, limited the Seattle Seahawks and their top-ranked running game to 73 yards in the wild card round.Now, the Rams, in just their third season back in Los Angeles after bolting from St. Louis, are one win from the Super Bowl.“To be able to even play for a Super Bowl is crazy, man,” Gurley said. “It’s crazy. I can’t even really explain it right now.”Gurley and Anderson did their handiwork behind the best offensive line in the league, and they were both quick to credit their teammates for creating massive seams in Dallas’ defense. Gurley, for example, was asked to detail what had transpired on his 35-yard touchdown run in the second quarter.“I ran,” he said. “Those guys did a great job. All I had to do was cut one time, and just run.”Even Goff, a talented young passer, got involved in the ground game, scrambling for an 11-yard run on third-and-7 late in the fourth quarter to help seal the win.Gurley, who tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee as a college junior at Georgia in 2014, missed the final two games of the Rams’ regular season with left knee inflammation. If the injury was a concern for the Rams at the time, it turned out to have been beneficial in a couple of ways.First, Gurley had nearly a month to recuperate and recharge. Ahead of Saturday’s game, some of his teammates said they could sense that he looked fresh — and a fresh Gurley is a dangerous Gurley. (For his part, Gurley said he “would’ve been fresh” for the playoffs no matter the circumstances.)Second, Gurley’s absence late in the regular season meant that the Rams had to add another running back to the roster. Enter Anderson.“I guess it was a good thing I got hurt, you know?” Gurley said.In the two games that Gurley missed, Anderson made an impression, rushing for 167 yards against the Arizona Cardinals and another 132 yards against the San Francisco 49ers, both wins. Coach Sean McVay made the transition look almost seamless.“I think it’s a testament to the maturity of our offense that we had somebody new come in and welcomed him with open arms so that he could come in and produce the way he could produce,” the left guard Rodger Saffold III said. “But I also think it’s a credit to C. J. that he could come in and understand the offense within four days. And it’s not just any offense; it’s McVay’s offense. There are a lot of words and a lot of categories and a lot of switches, and there are long, long plays.”Before Saturday’s game, Anderson saw Peyton Manning, the retired quarterback. Seeing Manning, Anderson said, reminded him of conversations they had when they were teammates with the Broncos. Anderson recalled how Manning once told him how difficult it had been for him when the Indianapolis Colts released him.Anderson can relate now more than ever.“He felt he could still play,” Anderson said, “and he came to Denver and lit it up. It kind of feels like that. Everybody has a turn, and it was my turn this year.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterA reader says the president got his wish for an article in The Times that cast him in a positive light. To the Editor:Re “Trump Says He’d Be Wary of Letting His Son Play” (SportsMonday, Feb. 4):President Trump complained to The New York Times’s publisher at their meeting last Thursday that just once he would like to see a positive piece about him. And a couple of days later one actually appeared.The president talked about his fears about his son Barron playing tackle football. He sounded like any other concerned parent. No bluster, no posturing, just serious concern. To the extent that it matters, it was nice to see.Robert RothNew YorkAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonAfter the first series in Sunday’s Super Bowl, which ended in an interception, New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady angrily cocked his right arm and flung his helmet over a sideline bench.Behind him, Coach Bill Belichick was yelling in the direction of two assistants, who did not bother to turn around.On the field, Patriots linebacker Dont’a Hightower had a potential interception ricochet off his hands.Brady went back out for the Patriots’ next offensive series of the first quarter and swiftly moved them into scoring position, but Stephen Gostkowski missed a field goal, the first kick he had missed in five games. Watching near his team bench, Brady turned and hurled a wad of white tape to the ground.The Patriots were having one of the ugliest performances of any of their nine Super Bowls in the Belichick era, and that included the three games they lost. Yes, the Los Angeles Rams were falling apart, seemingly trying to give the game away. But the Patriots had not run away from the confused, tentative Rams. And they were still tied with them in the fourth quarter.But then, like so many other times before, when it counted most, Brady and the Patriots rediscovered the brilliance that produced five previous Super Bowl victories. An offense once out of sync found a groove that led to a sparkling touchdown drive.It was brief, but it had the cool efficacy of an assassin. The names so familiar. Edelman. Gronkowski. Sony Michel. And the Patriots’ defense, which was not even ranked in the top half of the N.F.L. this season, somehow kept the league’s second-ranked offense from scoring a touchdown.Seconds before the final whistle and a last, largely ceremonial play, the Patriots began hugging one another in the huddle. Seconds later, confetti showered the field and the Patriots were 13-3 winners.The struggles of the first three quarters were forgotten, a puzzling memory but of no consequence any longer.“It was tough,” Brady said on the field afterward. “We just couldn’t make the big play; we couldn’t stay on the field on third down. It was a weird game like that. We were doing so much right, but none of it mattered until the fourth quarter.”It was, in many ways, a microcosm of the Patriots’ season. They began the year 1-2, rallied and then fell apart again. But they made the playoffs, capping their run with their sixth Super Bowl win — tying the Pittsburgh Steelers for the most. They did so by outplaying three of the top teams in the league: the Los Angeles Chargers, the Kansas City Chiefs and the Rams, who could never figure out how to solve New England’s ’ ever-changing defense.The Patriots left their safeties deep for much of the game but kept switching the positions of their cornerbacks, keeping them in the Rams’ wide receivers’ faces on one series, and then backing off the next. And the pressure on Rams quarterback Jared Goff was relentless for much of the night.A sloppy, listless game like Sunday’s might make it hard to immediately declare the Patriots’ championship run this century as one of the best in N.F.L. history, but the resilience and the ability to come out on top year after year is hard to argue with.“It took all kinds of ways to get this done, even week by week,” Brady said. “We had to grind it out against the Chargers, at Kansas City and obviously again tonight when we really struggled to find a rhythm.“But I mean, world champs again. Man, it’s pretty unreal.”The tone of the game — chaotic, muddled, boring — was evident from the beginning. The Patriots were having their problems, but the Rams’ offense was hapless (they had just two first downs in the first half).The Patriots were marching but getting nowhere.There was one Patriot having a spectacular game: wide receiver Julian Edelman, who had 10 receptions for 141 yards and was named game’s most valuable player. In the first half alone, Edelman made six catches that resulted in a first down, including a 25-yarder that set up a 42-yard Gostkowski field goal and a 3-0 lead that lasted until intermission. The Rams tied the game with a field goal of their own in the third quarter.The pivotal drive of the game began when the Patriots took control of the ball with 8 minutes 50 seconds left in the fourth quarter. The first play of the possession was a nice touch pass from Brady, who lofted the football over the head of a defender as tight end Rob Gronkowski circled toward the sideline for 18 yards.Two more Brady completions had the crowd at Mercedes-Benz Stadium chanting, “Bray-dee!”Brady then settled in the pocket and, behind the near flawless pass protection he had throughout the game, lofted a perfect spiral that dropped over the head of two fleet Rams defenders who were nonetheless helplessly chasing the 6-foot-6, 270-pound Gronkowski.Gronkowski was hobbled for most of this season, sometimes comically so, and he is openly pondering retirement. But after two weeks to rest various leg and elbow infirmities, Gronkowski looked rejuvenated. His 26-yard catch moved the ball to the Rams’ 2.In the huddle before the play, Edelman looked at Gronkowski and said, “We need another one from you, bro, we need a huge play.”Gronkowski said, “He had been making all the plays; I had to step up.”On the next play, Michel bulled into the end zone for a 10-3 lead. A late Gostkowski field goal sealed the outcome.The Patriots, bungling, frustrated and unsure of themselves for most of the game, had found a way to another championship — as they have so often before.“I don’t know what was going on there for a while — it was strange,” Brady said. “I just know it doesn’t matter anymore.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Shannon DoyneBefore reading the article: Did you watch the Super Bowl on Sunday? If so, how did you feel about the outcome? What commercials that aired during the game stood out to you? What did you think of the halftime entertainment?Now, read the article, “Patriots Win in Lowest-Scoring Super Bowl Ever,” and answer the following questions: 1. What was the final score?2. The article states, “New England’s reign is as relentless as a downpour, and without precedent.” What statistics explain this?3. Why, according to the writers, will these Rams and Patriots “be forever linked in Super Bowl ignominy?” What does that mean?4. Who was named the game’s most valuable player?5. What other team has won six Super Bowls? How many years did it take that team to achieve those wins? How does that compare to the Patriots’ record?Finally, tell us more about what you think:In the days leading up to the game, some football fans voiced displeasure about the matchup, and the roster of musicians who performed at halftime brought about “a skirmish over sports and politics.” Do you think these issues overshadowed the game? If so, to what degree?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonARLINGTON, Tex. — Raymond Kitchen had other places he would rather have been than in a big, empty football stadium at 7 a.m. on a Saturday. But there he was, three days before Christmas, with 450 other high school football coaches, attending a two-hour lecture on tackling at AT&T Stadium, the home of the Dallas Cowboys.The lecture was a part of an ambitious effort to have all of the state’s 23,000 junior high and high school football coaches become familiar with, by August, a program that teaches rugby-style tackling. It emphasizes the use of the shoulder, not the head, in bringing down the player with the ball.The program was created by Atavus, a company based in Seattle that says it can produce more effective tacklers by teaching defenders to square up before hitting a ball carrier and to use their shoulders and legs for leverage and power. Coaches like Kitchen seem receptive to the message Atavus is trying to popularize.“It’s where to put your head that is the focus now,” Kitchen, a defensive coach at James Bowie High School in Arlington, said after he finished a written test that was a part of the certification. “Every year, with C.T.E., every coach is now, ‘Get your head out of it,’” he added, using the initialism for chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.From the viewpoint of the Texas High School Coaches Association, any program that might reduce the number of head injuries in football, and the apprehension that they create, is worth looking at. Even if the program is inspired by a sport, rugby, that is much more prominent in other parts of the world than it is in the United States.After all, while participation in high school football in Texas has remained relatively steady over the past decade, the game is not growing here as fast as it once was. In part, that is because of specialization, which has locked some children into other sports. But another factor is the concern by a growing number of parents that football is simply too dangerous.That concern was clearly a part of the narrative at the seminar. Over and over, coaches who were present said the game was “under attack,” even in Texas, where football is nearly a religion. And to a man, they insisted that the benefits of the game — which they maintain teaches grittiness and teamwork — far outweighed its risks.“The most important part of it is getting moms to realize that the game is safer than it probably ever has been because of coaches’ awareness of concussions and all the things we’re trying to teach them, and because of the tackling training that’s coming on board,” said D. W. Rutledge, who retired recently as the executive director of the Texas High School Coaches Association.Rutledge and the coaches association have tried to reassure skittish parents by adopting rules that govern when players can return to action after a concussion and also limit the number of full-contact practices. Now they have turned to the rugby-style tackling program in their latest, and perhaps most elaborate, attempt to convince skeptics that football can be made safer to play.Rutledge and his second-in-command, Joe Martin, started searching for tackling programs about two years ago, concerned that state legislators might call for further restrictions on the sport. The most well-known tackling program was one designed by U.S.A. Football, which is funded by the N.F.L. But its emphasis was primarily on youth football.Rutledge and Martin wanted something that addressed older and more powerful athletes, and they were impressed with Atavus because of the dozens of techniques it uses to teach defenders how to approach ball carriers and bring them down.Pete Carroll, the coach of the Seattle Seahawks, has promoted “hawk tackling,” which borrows heavily from rugby. But Atavus, which works with coaches at Ohio State, Michigan State, Rutgers and other colleges, also uses video to analyze and rate tackles as well as identify additional drills to address deficiencies.In seizing on rugby as a model, Atavus was choosing to highlight a sport in which tackling above the shoulder is not permitted; some players wear “scrum caps’’ but none wear the hard plastic helmets used in football; and the rate of concussions is lower than in football, according to Dawn Comstock, a sports injury epidemiologist at the Colorado School of Public Health.Rex Norris, a former football coach in Texas who helped develop the tackling program for Atavus, which is called Tacklytics, knew that some coaches might be suspicious of techniques borrowed from rugby, and consider them an attempt to soften the way football is played, even though rugby is a physical sport played by burly athletes. So he started his hourlong presentation last month with a blunt proclamation:“We believe in tackling the legs,” he told the coaches. “We believe in body-on-body contact. And we believe in knocking the runner backward. We know how much this game is changing, and as coaches, we have to continue to change. We have to continue to change how we think, about how we practice.”Norris spoke to the coaches as a peer. But a part of him was akin to a physics professor trying to translate complex equations into simple concepts. Being an effective tackler, he told those at the seminar, was not just about bringing down a ball carrier, but about maximizing one’s power and control. To tackle effectively, a defender must take the right angle to the ball, face the ball carrier and use his legs, hips and shoulder in concert. “It’s not how fast you are coming, but if you are under control,” he said.Common sense suggests that avoiding head hits will reduce concussions and curtail the many smaller impacts with the helmet that have also been linked to long-term brain disease. One of the effective ways to do that is limiting the number of full-contact practices, something promoted by groups like Practice Like Pros, which partners with Atavus.But the link between concussions in football and tackling programs that reduce exposure to the head is far from established. For example, U.S.A. Football walked back a study it released about how its Heads Up Football program had helped reduce concussions on the youth level.And one of the difficulties in designing rigorous studies is establishing just what led to players’ concussions. They can get concussions for other reasons — such as hitting their head on the turf — that have nothing to do with tackling the ball carrier.Art Maerlender, the director of clinical research at the Center for Brain, Biology and Behavior at the University of Nebraska, in Lincoln, and a medical adviser to Atavus, said he was developing a “more fine-grained analysis” to account for all the variables that can lead to a concussion.Still, he noted, “just reducing the amount of times you hit your head makes sense,” he said. He also said that from his perspective, “this focus on technique is really quite new in American football.’’At least anecdotally, the Atavus tackling technique appears to help. Rodney Webb, the head coach at Rockwall High School, about a half-hour’s drive from Dallas, started using the program in 2016. While his players quickly learned the drills in practice, their results during games did not improve until the second season. In the season and a half since then, the number of missed tackles fell 30 percent, Webb said, and his varsity team had no concussions in the most recent season.“When it comes to tackling, it is a safer practice and a better practice,” he said of the rugby-style technique. “It’s a win-win.”As in Texas, many states have introduced return-to-play guidelines following concussions, and have limited the number of full-contact practices. Some of those states are now looking at how the tackling-technique program is taking hold in Texas. Representatives from high school football coaches associations in Alabama, Georgia and Oklahoma, among others, have spoken to Rutledge and Martin about their experience with Atavus.Meanwhile, U.S.A. Football is beginning to promote its own rugby-style tackling program. But whether any program can reverse the tide of players joining other sports is another question. Coaches know that parental skepticism can run deep, even in Texas.“I’m not the first one to say it, but football is dead in 15 years because mama doesn’t want her kids to play the game,” said Jim McDougle, an offensive coordinator at Bryan Adams High School in Dallas. “You can be as safe as you want to be, but it’s still a violent sport.”AdvertisementSuper Bowl liiiA knee injury took away one of the Rams’ most consistent options on offense. He joins a fraternity of players forced to sit out their first Super Bowl.CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanATLANTA — To miss a Super Bowl because of an injury is bad enough. To have it happen in your first Super Bowl seems especially cruel. In the case of Cooper Kupp, the standout slot receiver for the Los Angeles Rams, it’s hard to say whether the anguish this weekend  will be greater for him or for his team. Kupp, 25, entered his second season as one of the Rams’ top three wide receivers, alongside Brandin Cooks and Robert Woods, but in the team’s 5-0 start he emerged as the one quarterback Jared Goff would look for when things got particularly difficult.  Kupp earned that trust by catching 75 percent of the passes thrown his way and scoring five touchdowns in those five games. But on Sunday, as the Rams try to beat the New England Patriots and win the franchise’s first championship since the 1999 season, Kupp will be reduced to a spectator. A knee sprain cost him most of Weeks 6 through 8 and a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee, which he sustained in Week 10, ended his season.  Several high-profile players, like Carson Wentz, Von Miller and Jeremy Shockey, have found themselves in the same position in recent years, all feeling a deep sense of loss even as they tried to share their teammates’ joy.Kupp, a third-generation N.F.L. player — his grandfather, Jake, was a guard in the 1960s and 1970s, and his father, Craig, a backup quarterback in the early 1990s — has plenty of emotional support, and while he is staying away from the team’s official media appearances this week, he is with the Rams in Atlanta, which is not always a given for injured players.While Los Angeles still has plenty of stars on offense, there is no getting around what the team lost when Kupp went down for the season.The numbers are fairly stark. Goff had completed 68.4 percent of his passes through Week 10 and had a passer rating of 113. In the six regular-season games Goff played after Kupp’s injury, those numbers were reduced to 59.8 percent and 83.9. Cooks and Woods remained viable threats, but the shuffling of roles created some disarray, and Josh Reynolds, who stepped in as the third receiver, could not match Kupp’s reliability. There was a sense that without Kupp, the Rams went from invincible to merely great.Coach Sean McVay put things fairly bluntly to reporters shortly after Kupp’s injury. “Anytime you lose a player of Cooper’s caliber and what he’s meant to our offense, you don’t replace guys like that,” McVay said.But the Rams are in the Super Bowl anyway. Woods, who has largely assumed Kupp’s role in the offense,  said he felt it was important for Kupp to be included in everything leading up the game because he is a big reason the team got this far. Woods has a fairly simple idea about how the Rams can  make up for the frustration that Kupp undoubtedly feels: “We’ve got to get him a ring.”Players miss the Super Bowl as a result of injuries every year. Some stars have made it back to the big game; other have not. Here is a look at some other high-profile players who had to deal with being sidelined in their first shot at the sport’s ultimate honor. Super Bowl LIIThe Eagles’ run to a Super Bowl victory over the Patriots last year was fueled by outrage about being declared underdogs, in large part because Wentz, the Philadelphia quarterback and a candidate for the N.F.L.’s Most Valuable Player Award, was lost for the season after he tore a knee ligament in Week 13. With Wentz, the Eagles had been considered a favorite to win the championship.In the weeks leading up to the Eagles’ 41-33 triumph over New England, the players and coaches rallied around the backup quarterback, Nick Foles, wearing rubber dog masks and relishing the idea that no one believed in them. Wentz did his best to project happiness for his teammates’ Cinderella story, while not attempting to hide his own frustration.“Every time the offense comes on the field on Sunday, it’s tough,” Wentz said of the games he missed. “It hits me a little bit. But then I’m in it. I love these guys, and I’m a part of this team as much as anybody else.”The assumption was that Wentz would step back into his role as the team’s starting quarterback this season and that Philadelphia could be even stronger. Instead, the Eagles slipped into the playoffs behind Foles, not Wentz, who was sidelined by a fractured vertebra after Week 14. Foles and the team lost in the divisional round of the playoffs. The Eagles have emphatically committed to Wentz going forward, but his absence from a second playoff run muddied the waters somewhat for the team’s fans. Super Bowl XLVIIIThat Miller’s career survived the 2013 season is still a thing of wonder. The No. 2 pick in the 2011 draft, Miller was phenomenal in his first two seasons, totaling 30 sacks. The outside linebacker began his third season under suspension after violating the N.F.L.’s substance abuse policy and ended it by tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee in Week 16. He was regularly accused of being a distraction, and he had to watch from the sidelines as his teammates were trounced by the Seahawks, 43-8, in the Super Bowl. Plenty of players have had their careers derailed by similar issues, but Miller, with support from his family and his team, found a way to get  back on track.It took Miller just two seasons to get another shot at the Super Bowl.“It’s another chance at greatness,” he said of his team making it to Super Bowl 50 against the Carolina Panthers three years ago. “It doesn’t come around often. We got another chance.”He took full advantage of that chance, ruining Cam Newton’s day and earning the Super Bowl M.V.P. award. Super Bowl XLVThe Steelers had won two Super Bowls in the previous five seasons and were looking like something of a dynasty. Drafting 18th in 2010, the team selected Pouncey, a center who stepped in as a starter from Day 1 and earned a Pro Bowl spot for his exceptional play.Pouncey, who was just 21 at the time, was on track to become one of the youngest starters in Super Bowl history, but he injured an ankle in Pittsburgh’s win over the Jets in the A.F.C. championship game, forcing the Steelers to scramble to replace him.“I say we have two weeks to maybe try and fool everybody and get Maurkice’s brother in here and no one would know,” Ben Roethlisberger said in reference to Maurkice’s twin brother, Mike, also an N.F.L. lineman. Roethlisberger added, “I don’t think that’s going to work.”The Steelers ultimately lost the Super Bowl, 31-25, to Aaron Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers, and Pouncey, despite a nine-year career that has included two first-team All-Pro selections and seven Pro Bowl selections, has yet to get another chance at the big game. Super Bowl XLIIShockey was in his sixth year with the Giants when the team unexpectedly made a run to the Super Bowl in the 2007 season. Shockey had been a key part of the team’s offense from his first day in the N.F.L., averaging 62 catches and 705 yards a season from the tight end position, but his 2007 season ended when he broke his fibula in Week 15.Some pundits said the Giants played better without the brash tight end, an assessment that did not sit well with Mathias Kiwanuka, a defensive end who also missed the team’s dramatic 17-14 upset of the previously undefeated Patriots. “That guy, he put his heart and soul into the organization for a long time,” Kiwanuka said. “He was a vocal leader, an energy guy, and he was kind of the face and voice of this team for a long time. So for guys to say, and people here to say, we are better off without him as a player, it stings a lot, especially when you play as hard as he did.”Shockey never played for the Giants again. The team traded him to the New Orleans Saints in the off-season. Things turned out fine for both sides: Shockey caught a touchdown pass for the Saints in their Super Bowl XLIV win, and the Giants upset the Patriots again in Super Bowl XLVI.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College FootballBy Marc TracyThe 2018 college football season is over. Clemson is the champion. There are a few milestones to tide us over — national signing day (which is not what it used to be), spring games, summer media days — but the cold reality is, we are about eight months from the next game.Even college football addicts are likely to need a break after this whirlwind season, which began with coaching turmoil and ended with a surprise bludgeoning of Alabama. Along the way, Central Florida nearly got to claim another share of the national title before it lost the Fiesta Bowl to No. 11 Louisiana State — albeit by a mere 8 points while playing without their starting quarterback.Alas, as we while away our time with work, family and worrying about where Bryce Harper will sign, here are seven observations and thoughts inspired by the 2018 season to guide us to the 2019 season’s kickoff.College football is now college basketball. O.K., not quite. Veterans still matter and improve year-to-year — no coach brags about having a young defense — and, of course, N.F.L. rules still effectively keep underclassmen in the college game. But more than ever, and particularly at the most important position, it seems you are only as good as your latest recruiting class. The top five Heisman Trophy vote-getters were quarterbacks who were either transfers or in their first season as the starter, or both, and four of the five are entering the N.F.L. draft. And none of them was the Clemson freshman Trevor Lawrence, who on Monday night proved to be perhaps the most valuable quarterback of all.Who could benefit from this dynamic next season? Ohio State, because the highly rated Georgia backup Justin Fields is transferring there and reportedly seeking N.C.A.A. permission to compete immediately; and Oklahoma, which secured the commitment of the sole class of 2019 quarterback who was given five stars in 247Sports’s composite ratings.The College Football Playoff as we know it will remain. After more credible talk than ever that changes to the four-team format were imminent — or, at least, that discussions of changes to the four-team format were imminent — the playoff board chairman released a statement hours before Monday’s game pushing back strongly against such talk (and even talk of such talk).“As far as expanding the number of teams in the Playoff, it’s way too soon — much too soon — to know if that is even a possibility,” said the chairman, Mark Keenum, Mississippi State’s president. “It’s fair to say the speculation about expansion has outdistanced the reality of what the commissioners and the presidents have discussed.” There are seven more years on the current playoff contract, so brace yourself for more worthy conference champions like Ohio State getting left on the outside looking in.For coaches, bad behavior matters. Maryland’s D.J. Durkin, as prominent a coach as that program has had in decades, was suspended and then fired (after a one-day reinstatement) for, according to an internal report, presiding over a flawed program at which an athlete died after a grueling practice. And Ohio State’s Urban Meyer, the only coach not named Nick Saban to win national titles at two programs, was suspended for three games for mishandling allegations of domestic violence against a former assistant, creating a rupture that most likely contributed to his decision to retire.It would be easy to think such decisions were obvious, even inevitable. But in recent college sports history, excuses were routinely made for successful coaches. However much that may still be true, it is less true now than it used to be.Stasis is worse than losing. Would you rather be Southern California or Arkansas? The Trojans were 5-7, while the Razorbacks were 2-10. But U.S.C. is keeping the four-year head coach who presided over that season, the one who just lost his prospective offensive coordinator, Kliff Kingsbury, to the N.F.L. Arkansas can genuinely claim it is rebuilding: that 2-10 campaign came the first year after it replaced its athletic director and head coach with respected talents from Group of 5 colleges. Somehow it is on pace to haul in its best recruiting class in nearly a decade.College football may not have quite the tank-and-improve infrastructure of the professional leagues, and yet programs are more likely to underperform because a change has not been made than because one has.The Big Ten is wide open again. In Urban Meyer’s seven seasons, the Buckeyes won only (“only”) three championships. Even that is deceptive, though, because in the other four seasons, Ohio State either was undefeated but ineligible for the championship because of sanctions, or suffered its sole conference loss to the eventual champion. In other words, the road to the Big Ten title ran through Columbus.But now Meyer is gone. The first-time head coach Ryan Day, who filled in ably while Meyer was on leave, is replacing him. Wisconsin looks likely to move on, finally, from Alex Hornibrook at quarterback, while Michigan will get another year of Shea Patterson under center. Nebraska is in Year 2 under Scott Frost. Penn State is still recruiting well under James Franklin. Michigan State still has Mark Dantonio, Iowa Kirk Ferentz. Purdue held on to Jeff Brohm! It is anyone’s league.Texas may be back. Before the Sugar Bowl, one could have dismissed the Longhorns, who were 9-4, their signature win coming in a close and weird game against Oklahoma, which returned to defeat them soundly in the Big 12 championship game.Then Texas outplayed Georgia, last year’s runner-up, 28-21, giving the Longhorns their first 10-win season since they were the national runners-up in 2009. The third year  tends to be a big one for the best coaches, and 2019 is Tom Herman’s.Bama will be back. Alabama’s loss to Clemson on Monday night was not close. It was not even close to close. Alabama did not score in the game’s final 44 minutes. You could change each of Tua Tagovailoa’s interceptions to touchdowns, giving Alabama the extra points and erasing the 7 points Clemson scored by returning the first interception for a touchdown, and Clemson would have still won by 7.Now Alabama will have to go back to the drawing board, with only … its Heisman runner-up quarterback, its all-Americans at wide receiver and on the defensive line, the top-ranked recruiting class and Nick Saban, still the winner of five of the past 10 national championships. It is not true that the Tide’s dominance will last as long as the actual tide does. But it sometimes feels that way.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew KehLEIPZIG, Germany — Upon moving to Germany from the United States last summer, Jesse Marsch, his wife, Kim, and their three children made a pact of sorts regarding their new life abroad: When a situation that felt foreign made them want to turn inward, they would challenge themselves to do the opposite, to turn outward and embrace it, to accept and understand it.Such discomfort has been precisely the point for Marsch, the very reason he diverged from an ascendant coaching path in the United States last summer and sought out the unknown across the Atlantic Ocean.In July, Marsch left his job as coach of the New York Red Bulls in Major League Soccer to accept a post as an assistant coach for RB Leipzig in the Bundesliga. While unquestionably a step up in competition, it was, in some respects, still an unconventional move, and Marsch said even some of his friends in soccer asked him if taking a job as an assistant might be a step backward.But what represents a step backward, and what is the convention, when you are navigating a mostly uncharted path? Because while opportunities for American players in Europe continue to expand, there is not yet much of a road map for what Marsch wants to be: an American coach who builds a long, successful career in one of the continent’s top leagues.And so he has chosen to seek out that challenge, to take chances and to face the unknown and the unfamiliar head on.“I’ve gotten more comfortable,” he said, “with being uncomfortable.”After decades of battling stereotypes and preconceived ideas about their abilities, American players have, slowly, found a level of acceptance in European soccer. One of the players Marsch brought into the Red Bulls’ first team, for example, was viewed even here as a solid addition when he joined RB Leipzig this month. That player, the 19-year-old Tyler Adams, and other American prospects now head to the continent in waves, and in general the professional pathways there have become well worn and widely available.A similar process has yet to unfold for American coaches, however. There are no set pathways, and there are few pioneers.Marsch regards one of them, Bob Bradley, as the “biggest mentor” in his career, and he has found Bradley’s experiences instructive. From 2014 to 2016, Bradley held head coaching jobs for clubs in Norway, France and England. Looking back, his stint abroad was as notable for the milestones he set for American coaches — he was the first American to coach a team in England’s Premier League — as it was for the relentless stream of misgivings from fans and pundits in whatever new locale he landed. (Bradley’s Premier League tenure lasted all of 11 games.)“The perception of Bob, I think, when he was here is that he probably wasn’t as knowledgeable because he’s from America, that his accent and the way he talked about football may have brought questions up within fan bases about how do Americans think about football, how do they talk about football, even use the word football,” Marsch said. “All those things are unfair, but they’re realities we have to deal with.”That is what Marsch knows he is up against now, and it is the reason he says he has tried to take a holistic approach to this new chapter of his life.Under RB Leipzig’s manager, Ralf Rangnick, Marsch has assumed what he described as a fluid, all-encompassing role. At the same time, he is responsible for a weekly set of tasks — running different elements of training, game analysis and opponent preparation — whose strict implementation he has found exhilarating in a way only a knowledge-hungry coach can.While RB Leipzig and New York’s Red Bulls are both technically part of the same corporate sports empire, his first months experiencing the nuances of German soccer culture — the structure, the specificity, the attention to detail — reiterated for him how much he still can learn.“It would have been easy for me to stay in New York,” Marsch said about his last job in Major League Soccer, where he spent three and a half seasons and compiled the most wins in franchise history. “But in the end, that wasn’t really what I was interested in.”Instead, Marsch, who had begun the process of obtaining his UEFA pro coaching license in 2017, accepted an offer to join the Leipzig coaching staff and left the Red Bulls in midseason. Rangnick, an experienced coach and former Red Bull sporting director, is in his second stint leading Leipzig but plans to coach only for this season. The club has previously announced that Hoffenheim’s Julian Nagelsmann, a rising star in German coaching, will take over this summer.“I know the league, the team and I speak the language,” Rangnick said when he returned to the bench. “That isn’t the case yet for Jesse Marsch, so that’s why he will be working as an assistant coach.” Still, the club noted specifically when it hired Marsch that he had signed a two-year contract, with the expectation that he would continue in the role once Nagelsmann arrives.Until then, Marsch has been stockpiling professional experiences like a backpacker collecting souvenirs. That mind-set was one reason he was not interested in pursuing the United States national team coaching job, which still sat vacant when he left for Europe. Marsch wants to hold the position one day, he said, but only after he has accumulated more experience.Now, he said, it better that the American soccer ecosystem put its collective support behind the coach who was chosen, Gregg Berhalter, and move away from the negativity that seemed to infest its culture in the past year.“If I were to be critical of the sport in our country in general, I think we have failed ourselves miserably because everyone is the smartest guy in the room and everyone is the biggest critic, inside the game and out,” he said. “And that will never be successful.”Marsch also said he hoped more of his coaching peers from the United States would pursue unfamiliar pathways and leaps of faith, like the one he is taking now, so that opportunities for American coaches in the top levels of the game might one day seem as plentiful as they have become for players.Adams is one such player, and Marsch said he was eager to throw new challenges at him, too. Adams made his debut for RB Leipzig in a friendly during Germany’s winter break, and was included in the first team for this weekend’s game against Dortmund, though he was an unused substitute in Leipzig’s 1-0 defeat.“When you see this kid up close every day, it’s almost like you’re watching a weed grow by the second,” Marsch said of Adams. “That’s how he is. You throw something difficult at him, and he eats it up and spits it out.”These days, Marsch takes German language lessons three times a week and uses the language in coaches meetings and with players on the field. While he has improved, he said, the process also has made look, at times, “like a fool.”But those minor indignities, he noted, could serve as positives within a team context.“I think it’s an important lesson in an leadership position to show that you’re willing to be vulnerable, you’re willing to make mistakes, and that’s how I’m going to get better,” he said. “I think that’s the same thing we want to portray to our players: ‘We all mistakes. You’re going to make mistakes. But let’s all learn from them. Let’s get better together.’”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — At N.F.L. media nights, the biggest stars speak at podiums, and this year was no different. When the Los Angeles Rams took the floor, quarterback Jared Goff, running back Todd Gurley II and Coach Sean McVay drew big crowds.But cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman drew equally large crowds. A week ago, Robey-Coleman was just a former undrafted free agent finishing his sixth season. Now, he needed media minders to keep reporters from digging too deeply into a play that may have altered the Super Bowl.That came in the N.F.C. Championship Game in New Orleans, where he drilled Saints wide receiver Tommylee Lewis before he could get in position to catch a pass from Drew Brees.No flag was thrown for pass interference or helmet-to-helmet contact. The Saints went on to kick a field goal, but left enough time on the clock for the Rams to tie the game and send it into overtime, when they eventually won, 26-23.The game-changing play has been a game changer for Robey-Coleman. He said he had received numerous death threats, and his social media accounts have been overwhelmed with hate mail from angry Saints fans.“Right now, my phone is crazy,” Robey-Coleman said. “Like my brother said, a lot of people probably had money on the game.”Robey-Coleman said he’s received more than 3,000 direct messages on Instagram, more than 1,000 messages on Facebook and 500 messages on Snapchat.“I got threats here and there, but nothing to dwell on,” he said. “All types of threats, death threats.”The non-call led Saints owner Gayle Benson to say the team had been “unfairly deprived” of a chance to reach the Super Bowl. Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy criticized the N.F.L. on the Senate floor during a government shutdown.Other than the head official speaking to a pool reporter after the game, the N.F.L. has said nothing about the non-call on the play, or the events that have followed.The league, though, all but admitted a penalty should have been called when, on Friday, it fined Robey-Coleman $26,739 for a helmet-to-helmet hit on Lewis.Robey-Coleman said, ”We moved on from it as a team, and I moved on personally.” Indeed, his fellow defensive back Marcus Peters on Monday night refused to answer questions about officiating or the non-call.But Robey-Coleman hasn’t made it easier on himself, or his teammates. He said Saturday that the ball Brees threw to Lewis was tipped, suggesting that Lewis could not have caught the pass regardless of what Robey-Coleman did.To compound matters, he said that Patriots quarterback Tom Brady had slowed with age, comments that may give the Patriots extra motivation.“Whatever he was doing — because of his age and all that — he’s not doing as much of that anymore,” he told Bleacher Report. “He’s still doing the same things; he’s just not doing as much of it.”On Monday, Robey-Coleman said the comments about Brady’s age were taken out of context, and that he has a lot of respect for him. Brady declined to comment.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA former national soccer star and political dissident thanks the outside world for securing his freedom from Thailand, which imprisoned him on the request of his homeland. By Hakeem al-AraibiMr. al-Araibi fled Bahrain in 2014. MELBOURNE, Australia — I will never forget the love and support I was greeted with the moment I arrived here on Feb. 12 after spending 76 days in detention in Thailand. The combined international engagement on my case is what gave me my freedom back. I am home now with my wife, and for that we deeply thank all who played a role in my safe return.What kept me going during these dark 76 days? Knowing that the whole world was witnessing the injustice. Millions of people saw me barefoot and shackled at a hearing in Bangkok, not because I had committed any crime — I had not — but because, I believe, Thailand’s ruling family happened to be tightening its relations with the Khalifas, the family that rules Bahrain, where I was born and which I had represented on its national soccer team. The shackles were humiliating. I am not a criminal, though I had been tried in absentia on what are widely accepted to be made-up charges — including the nonsensical accusation that I participated in burning a police station at a time I was playing soccer in a televised match — and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. I strongly believe my only “crime” was upsetting the Bahraini royal family by drawing attention to the failure of Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa, the president of the Asian Football Confederation, to protect athletes, and his alleged involvement in their arrest and torture, after pro-democracy demonstrations in the country in 2011.  I escaped Bahrain in 2014 after learning of the charge against me, and took up residence in Australia, where I was granted refugee status in 2017. Feeling safer, I often forgot there were still unfair charges against me, and my wife and I planned our honeymoon.I arrived in Thailand only to find myself rapidly separated from my wife and confined to a detention center. Many people believe that my return to Australia was a glorious victory, but to me it is only a half victory. I am safe and reunited with my wife, but I am also reminded that my dream of eventually going back to Bahrain will not be a reality any time soon.Bahrain has only a jail cell to offer me, while Australia is now my home and its government and people have stood by me.While in prison, I had a long time to consider how I got there. I have no doubt my imprisonment in Thailand was a punishment for my criticism of Sheikh Salman, a member of the Bahraini royal family, during his 2016 campaign to be elected president of FIFA, the international soccer organization. My highlighting of his alleged violations of human rights in 2011 likely contributed to his failure to win the election.I am a free man now, but what about the more than 150 Bahraini athletes and sports officials who were arrested and in some cases tortured in 2011? Some remain in prison to this day. No credible investigations into these abuses were carried out.There is a dark side to sports in Bahrain. The kingdom uses wealth and sports to whitewash its legacy of abuses, and silences those who try to draw attention to this pattern.The activist Najah Ahmed Yousif was tortured, sexually abused and imprisoned in 2017 for daring to criticize the Bahrain Grand Prix auto race, and the journalist Ahmed Ismail Hassan was shot and killed while attempting to cover protests surrounding the race in 2012. Salah Abbas Habib Musa, a protest leader, was shot by the police during the weekend of the race, and nobody was held accountable for his death. Next month Formula One racing is scheduled in Bahrain; if the Formula One management fails to secure the release of Ms.Yousif, it should cancel the race. In Bahrain there are consequences for speaking up, but I am willing to take a personal risk and stand up for human rights no matter what, as are many brave Bahrainis. Don’t be mistaken, as I was when I went on my honeymoon to Thailand: I may be free now, but I and many other peaceful critics remain a target for Bahrain. Relatives of my friend Sayed Ahmed are imprisoned in Bahrain for his speaking out against the regime from his home in London. This week, Bahrain’s court upheld its three-year sentence in what the United Nations considers an unlawful act of reprisal through family connections. Bahrain has been emboldened thanks to President Trump, who has made it clear to Bahrain that “there won’t be strain with this administration.” The United States was in a powerful position to help end my ordeal, but instead it chose to stay silent. Indeed, Secretary of State Michael Pompeo traveled to Bahrain and praised the strategic partnership between the two countries, but made no mention of my case. Not only did he not mention my situation while I was still detained in Thailand, he failed to raise the issue of human rights at all. The United States had the means to use its leverage, since Bahrain is a close ally and host of the Fifth Fleet, but it failed to take a stance. Britain, similarly and shamefully, avoided offering support for my situation.If Bahrain has learned anything from seeking to extradite me, it is that the government can arrest, torture and repress its people and countries like the United States and Britain will continue to look the other way. My case underscores Bahrain’s enormous power to flout international standards, like lodging an illegitimate “red notice” with Interpol to stop a refugee while he travels. It also shows Bahrain that the United States and Britain consider their own interests more important than the lives of individual Bahrainis. These countries are abandoning human rights at a time when things are worsening in Bahrain and will only continue to deteriorate.I am so fortunate to have been able to return to Australia and continue my life, but many other Bahrainis are not as lucky. If they received the same level of international support I did, they might be enjoying the same freedom I am now.Hakeem al-Araibi, a former member of Bahrain’s national soccer team, plays for Pascoe Vale Football Club in Melbourne.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe post-truth era has found its post-truth sport.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistI’m not really sure why they’re bothering with a Super Bowl this year. Sure, a bunch of people will make a boatload of money, tens of millions of us will reflexively tune in and we’ll find rare common ground over how cheesy the halftime show is. But are we believers anymore? Will we really see the winner as the winner — or just as the charmed survivor of a grossly tarnished process? Be it the New England Patriots or the Los Angeles Rams, the team will have an asterisk after its name. And that asterisk is a big fat sign of the times. I’m referring, of course, to the miserable officiating that’s arguably the reason the Patriots beat the Kansas City Chiefs and the Rams beat the New Orleans Saints, leading to the matchup in this coming Sunday’s season-finale game. The Rams in particular were blessed by the referees, who failed to note and penalize a glaring case of pass interference in the climactic minutes. I needn’t describe what happened. Footage of it has been replayed as extensively and analyzed as exhaustively as the Zapruder film.And it has prompted an intensity of protest, a magnitude of soul searching and a depth of cynicism that go well beyond the crime in question. That’s where the feelings about the Super Bowl and the mood of America converge.[Go beyond the headlines and behind the curtain with Frank Bruni’s candid reflections on politics, culture, higher education and more every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] We’re still reeling from a presidential election that was colored if not corrupted by unfair advantages, undue meddling and disrespected rules, and here we have a Super Bowl that’s colored if not corrupted by unfair advantages, undue meddling and disrespected rules. Many fans are rejecting its legitimacy — sound familiar? There are conspiracy theories afoot.Americans are so down on, and distrustful of, major institutions and authorities that we’re primed to declare their fraudulence, and the National Football League and the Super Bowl are on the receiving end of that. They’re not fresh targets, not by any stretch. But this time we've lost all sense of perspective. The missed pass-interference call in the clash between the Rams and Saints was certainly egregious, but every football game is a compendium of good and bad breaks; luck is always a factor and often the deciding one. The Saints had home-field advantage, and their fans created enough noise to addle and even paralyze the Rams on offense. The Saints also made errors galore, blowing the possibility of a lead too commanding to be erased by poor officiating. On a recent episode of his podcast, the sports commentator Bill Simmons methodically broke down the game en route to this conclusion: “I really thought the Rams were better.” He added that “if that’s a neutral field, I think the Rams win.”That the Rams did win, with an assist from somnambulistic referees, has not gone over well in New Orleans. The Louisiana governor wrote a letter of condemnation to N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell. The New Orleans City Council is considering a formal resolution declaring the outcome an “injustice” and demanding that the N.F.L. thoroughly review its rules. One of Louisiana’s senators has called for a congressional hearing on the matter.Several Saints ticket holders have filed lawsuits against the N.F.L., variously claiming that they have endured mental anguish, lost the enjoyment of life and been defrauded by the league. A movement in New Orleans to boycott the Super Bowl involves the staging of competing events, vows by many bars not to show the game and pledges by many other bars to show, instead, the 2010 Super Bowl, in which the Saints beat the Indianapolis Colts. The team’s fans, in other words, can choose an alternative reality. Again, sound familiar?Outside Louisiana, there have been murmurs about the fact that four referees in the Rams-Saints contest live in Southern California: Was a secret pro-Rams bias at work? There has also been angst about the speed of players now, the intricacies of the rule book, the ease of instant replay and what all of that portends. “What if this was the moment that blew all of our commonly held notions about officiating to pieces and made us really, truly question whether the game in its current state can really be adequately overseen by referees at all?” asked Conor Orr, epically, on Sports Illustrated’s website.On Deadspin.com, Tom Ley went further, writing that football today “requires you to sit on your couch for three hours and spend the whole time questioning if what you saw is really what you saw.” The referees, the videotape and the fans have conflicting perceptions and wind up telling diverging stories — not just about the pass-interference bungle but about a roughing-the-passer penalty on a Chiefs player who, to my eyes, did nothing more than fail to blow Tom Brady an air kiss at the end of the play. That decision, too, was possibly game-changing, graduating Brady to a Super Bowl in which he may not belong.Football has never been entirely fair, any more than life is. In the past, the Patriots were caught spying on other teams; the Saints were punished for deliberately trying to injure opposing teams’ players. Critics gasped and the band played on. Maybe the same will happen this time.Or maybe the post-truth era has found its post-truth sport.I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byin her wordsSarah Thomas became the first woman to officiate an N.F.L. playoff game last weekend — making her one of a few women who have broken new ground in football. By Maya SalamWelcome to In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“The guys don’t think of me as a female; they see me as just another official.”— Sarah ThomasI am that N.F.L. fan. The one who leads the fight song, takes my fantasy team too seriously and won’t give my father-in-law back his Eagles jersey. I even cemented my team loyalty in my wedding vows.In recent years, though, my enthusiasm has waned — with each revelation about sexual harassment (most recently by cheerleaders and office workers), domestic abuse and the effect of the sport on players’ brains.But long before these problems came to light, I found the lack of women in leadership roles in the sport irritating. We often discuss the need for more women in the boardroom, but what about in the locker room, a team’s back office and on the sidelines?So I was encouraged this weekend to see Sarah Thomas become the first woman to officiate an N.F.L. playoff game. Thomas, a Mississippi native and a mother of three, had already broken plenty of ground in the sport — becoming the first full-time female official in N.F.L. history in 2015. She was also the first woman to referee a major college football game, a bowl game and a game in a Big Ten stadium.Thomas wasn’t the only first over the weekend. In a playoff game on Saturday, Terri Valenti became the first female replay official.The news got me thinking about the women who had already changed football — the ones who have smashed through the gender wall without pads, a helmet or much fanfare. Here are three worth remembering.______“I might be the first, but I don’t think I’ll be the only one for very long.”— Kathryn SmithIn 2016, Kathryn Smith was hired by the Buffalo Bills head coach, Rex Ryan, as a quality control special teams coach, making her the N.F.L.’s first full-time female assistant coach.At the time of her promotion, Smith said the move “shows somebody if you work hard that you can do whatever you set your mind to, and if that’s the message that’s getting across to girls, boys, whoever it is, then I think that’s a good thing.”“I might be the first, but I don’t think I’ll be the only one for very long,” she said, and she was right.In August 2017, Katie Sowers of the San Francisco 49ers became the second woman to be hired as a full-time assistant coach. She is also the first openly gay N.F.L. coach.After Ryan was let go after the 2016 season, Smith was not retained by the Bills’s new head coach, Sean McDermott.______“It was a tremendous feeling of just satisfaction of all the hard work and all the time spent trying to prepare for that opportunity.”— Beth MowinsIn September 2017, Beth Mowins became the first woman to call a nationally televised N.F.L. game: a Monday Night Football divisional matchup between the Los Angeles Chargers and Denver Broncos.By doing this, she also became the second female play-by-play announcer in N.F.L. regular season history. Gayle Sierens, a sports anchor in Florida, announced a game in 1987.Mowins was hired by ESPN in 1994. Since 2005, she has called play-by-play games for women’s college sports and for college football. She has also been the voice for the Oakland Raiders’ preseason games in recent years.______“Work as hard as you can. And when you don’t think you can work any harder, try to find a way to work harder.”— Amy TraskIn 1997, Amy Trask became the first female chief executive officer of an N.F.L. team, the Oakland Raiders — a position she held until 2013.Trask is a self-made woman in the industry. In the 1980s, while in college, she cold-called the Raiders and offered to work as an unpaid intern. A few years later, in 1987, the team’s legal department brought her on as a full-time lawyer. She ascended to the top from there.Trask left the team in 2013, and in 2016, her book, “You Negotiate Like A Girl: Reflections on a Career in the National Football League,” was published.______Donation bins around the country are overflowing thanks to the binge-worthy Netflix reality show “Tidying Up With Marie Kondo.” But while some quickly kissed their belongings goodbye, others have noted how the show starkly displayed the persistence of traditional gender roles.Several episodes feature inept husbands inexplicably surprised by the misery of their overburdened wives. In an article for Vice about how the show “is inadvertently about women’s invisible labor,” Nicole Clark wrote that it lays bare the ways women are burdened with the management of a family’s stuff. “Things are the dominion of women, and the place where these things are stored are the dominion of women too,” she wrote. ______“Being a woman in power means knowing it’s O.K. to be fierce.” As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in Congress. See their faces here. [The New York Times] “I spent all my time hoping that no one would remember I was female.” Women economists say sexual harassment, discrimination and bullying derail their success. [The New York Times]“These findings show it doesn’t have to be this way.” Educators want to know the secret of why the academic gender gap among Asian-Americans is delayed until adolescence. [The New York Times]The gender politics of fasting. Both Cesar Chavez and Simone Weil starved their bodies for spiritual and political reasons. Why is only one of them remembered as anorexic? [New York Times Opinion]“An across-the-board cultural icon.” Missy Elliott will become the first hip-hop artist to be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. [The New York Times]“How you look is part of the message you are communicating.” Our chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, explains why it would be irresponsible not to cover Nancy Pelosi’s style. [New York Times Reader Center]______The very first Super Bowl was a real battle — not between Green Bay and Kansas City (the Packers crushed the Chiefs) — but between husbands and wives in and around New York City, evidently. The women shrieked “blah!” while the men were hypnotized, according to a Times article in 1967. “He’s obsessed with watching all those big lugs on the idiot box, and I’m obsessed in the exact opposite way,” Lucretia Amari said of her husband.So where were all the female humans during the big game? According to the piece, “Girls — little and big — stormed into kitchens, slammed the door and waited. And waited.” Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox. Are you on Instagram? Follow us here.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnRachelle Lefevre plays the leader of a law firm specializing in reversing wrongful convictions in a new Fox legal drama. And a Jordan Peele-produced Amazon series revisits Lorena Bobbitt.PROVEN INNOCENT 9 p.m. on Fox. What’s more satisfying than watching justice doled out from the comfort of your couch? The latest legal drama to hit television hopes that the answer is this: watching injustices be reversed. That’s the premise of this new show, which stars Rachelle Lefevre as a lawyer who was once wrongfully convicted of murder and, after having her name cleared, became the leader of a law firm specializing in fighting wrongful sentences. Russell Hornsby plays her legal partner. Kelsey Grammer plays the rotten state’s attorney who put Lefevre’s character behind bars; he’s now her main adversary in the courtroom. The series was created by Danny Strong — one of the creators of “Empire” — and the screenwriter David Elliot.NBA ALL-STAR CELEBRITY GAME 7 p.m. on ESPN. Bojangles’ Coliseum in Charlotte, N.C., is the backdrop of this year’s NBA All-Star Celebrity Game, which pits a “home” team of names like the actor JB Smoove, the television personality Dr. Mehmet Oz and the rapper Rhapsody against an “away” team that includes the comedians Hasan Minhaj and Amanda Seales and the singer Bad Bunny. The rapper Quavo, a member of Migos and, less prominently, last year’s Celebrity Game M.V.P., will also play for the “away” team.LORENA Stream on Amazon. You probably know the story: in June 1993, Lorena Bobbitt cut off her husband’s penis with a kitchen knife. The next year, she was acquitted of criminal charges, but not before she had become a media sensation and the butt of scores of jokes, which often ignored evidence that she’d been a victim of domestic violence. Now, 25 years after her acquittal, she’s telling what happened on her own terms, in this new Jordan Peele-produced documentary series. “It’s like they all missed or didn’t care why I did what I did,” Bobbitt recently told The New York Times. “This is about a victim and a survivor,” she went on to say, “and this is about what’s happening in our world today.”THE NOTE: SHAPING THE SOUND OF NY Stream on Red Bull TV. Alexander Rosner survived the Holocaust and became a respected sound engineer in New York during the disco boom of the ’70s. He talks about his work in this short documentary, and about his latest gig: installing sound systems in churches.PERIOD. END OF SENTENCE. (2018) Stream on Netflix. Rayka Zehtabchi’s Oscar-nominated documentary short looks at the way a village in rural India is transformed by the installation of a sanitary-pad machine. Through that story, it delves into social attitudes regarding menstruation in India — a topic also notably explored in the Indian filmmaker R. Balki’s 2018 feature, “Padman,” which is also streaming on Netflix.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiA beloved 1990s movie gets a new TV adaptation on BET. And an absurd anthology series debuts on TBS. BOOMERANG 10 p.m. on BET. The screenwriter Lena Waithe (“Master of None”) gives the 1992 romantic comedy “Boomerang” the television treatment. The movie stars Eddie Murphy as Marcus, a womanizing advertising executive who ends up in a love triangle between his boss, Jacqueline (Robin Givens), and a co-worker, Angela (Halle Berry). Set in the present, this new series imagines the lives of Marcus and Angela’s daughter (Tetona Jackson) and Jacqueline’s son (Tequan Richmond), 20-somethings trying to make it in the advertising industry in Atlanta. “Even if you’ve never seen the movie, you can appreciate the show and see the subtle nuances through which we pay tribute to the original,” Waithe said in a recent interview with The New York Times. She added: “But we are also trying to create our own lane.”THE MANY LIVES OF NICK BUONICONTI (2019) 10 p.m. on HBO; stream on HBO platforms. In the 1970s, the football player Nick Buoniconti led the Miami Dolphins; retired and became a lawyer and sports agent; and began hosting HBO’s “Inside the N.F.L.” with Len Dawson. In 1985, his focus shifted when his son, Marc, suffered a spinal cord injury while playing college football that left him quadriplegic. Since then, Buoniconti has become an outspoken activist for research into spinal cord and brain injuries. This new portrait depicts the accomplished athlete, from his early days as a “ferocious fighter” to his later years as a philanthropist.MIRACLE WORKERS 10:30 p.m. on TBS. Based on the novel “What in God’s Name,” by Simon Rich, this new limited series stars Daniel Radcliffe as Craig, an underpaid angel tasked with fulfilling prayers. When his boss, God (Steve Buscemi), decides that Earth is no longer worth his time, Craig and another angel, Eliza (Geraldine Viswanathan), work to prevent its destruction by achieving a true miracle: helping two socially awkward people fall in love.BOY MEETS GIRL on Britbox. This short-lived series made waves in Britain when it premiered on BBC Two for casting Rebecca Root (“The Danish Girl”), a transgender actress, in a lead role. She plays Judy, a middle-aged transgender woman who falls for a much younger man, Leo (Harry Hepple). The first season focuses on the reaction of Leo’s family to his new relationship, but when that story line ended there was not much left to work with: The show got the ax after just two seasons.THE BLUES BROTHERS (1980) stream on Amazon; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube. This classic comedy, born out of “Saturday Night Live” skits, follows two brothers (Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi) who get their band back together to raise $5,000 to keep the orphanage they were born in from being sold. Watch for over-the-top car chases and cameos by musicians like James Brown, Ray Charles and Aretha Franklin.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — A day after helping lead the New England Patriots to their sixth Super Bowl title, Brian Flores was named head coach of the Miami Dolphins on Monday.Flores worked with the Patriots for 15 seasons, most recently as the linebackers coach — though he was also responsible for defensive play-calling. He leaves New England on a high note after the Patriots’ defense held the Los Angeles Rams to just 3 points in the Super Bowl on Sunday.As the 13th coach of the Dolphins, Flores will have a lot of work to do. Miami has qualified for the playoffs only twice in the past 17 years, and has had only one winning season in the last decade. He succeeds Adam Gase, who went 23-25 with the team over three seasons and was fired — and subsequently hired by the Jets — after going 7-9 last season.“We’re going to do everything possible to win games and build the culture, and build a winner here,” Flores said on Monday.Flores was a defensive coach from 2011 to 2018, his first calling plays. This season, the Patriots limited opposing quarterbacks to the seventh-lowest average passer rating in the league (85.4), up from 17th (89.5) in 2017. The Patriots were also tied for fifth in the league with 28 takeaways, up from 25th and 18 total the year before.Flores’s move to Florida was not unexpected, but the Dolphins had to wait until the Patriots’ season had ended to formally announce his hiring.He is the only nonwhite head coach to be hired so far in this off-season. All of the other seven head coaches hired have been white. With no current head coaching vacancies, Flores is currently one of four nonwhite coaches in the N.F.L., where the number of coaches who are people of color has fallen by 50 percent compared to last season.The drop in the number of minority coaches has been a source of consternation in the N.F.L. In December, the league strengthened the so-called Rooney Rule, which obligates teams to consider minority candidates for coaching and executive positions. Teams are now required to interview a minority candidate who is not already employed by the team or a minority candidate from the league’s Career Development Advisory Panel list.At the time of the change, the league denied that it had amended the rule — which is named for Dan Rooney, the former owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who championed its creation in 2003 — because it was not effective enough.Last week, Commissioner Roger Goodell said it was unfair to look at a single year when judging the effectiveness of the Rooney Rule.The league, he said, would not judge the success or failure of the rule in “one-year increments.” He added that more than 20 teams had hired minority coaches since the rule was introduced in 2003.Still, there is a distinct lack of people of color in the offensive coordinator and quarterback coach positions, which are often steppingstones to the head coach job.Flores is the latest N.F.L. coach to have been groomed by Patriots head coach Bill Belichick. Houston Texans Coach Bill O’Brien, Detroit Lions Coach Matt Patricia, and Tennessee Titans Coach Mike Vrabel all worked under Belichick. So did Nick Saban, who has been wildly successful leading the University of Alabama.Other Belichick pupils have not been as successful, including Eric Mangini, who was 33-47 in five years coaching the Jets and the Cleveland Browns. Romeo Crennel, who spent six years coaching the Browns and Kansas City Chiefs, had a record of 28-55.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperIt was the lowest-scoring Super Bowl ever, a universally agreed-upon snoozefest. The halftime show was forgettable. The commercials were tame.The fans watching at home noticed, and Super Bowl broadcaster CBS paid the price.CBS announced Monday that 98.2 million people watched the New England Patriots defeat the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, on CBS, the smallest television audience since 2008, when the New York Giants defeated the Patriots. That is a 5 percent drop from last year, when 103.4 million people watched the Super Bowl on NBC, and a 12 percent drop from 2017, when 111.3 million people watched it on Fox. CBS said 2.6 million people streamed the Super Bowl, setting a digital viewership record, for a total audience of 100.7 million, which means compared with two years ago, people really did not care for this Super Bowl.That was especially true in New Orleans, where a sense of righteous indignation from fans whose hometown Saints were the victims of poor refereeing contributed to the audience collapse. The Saints lost to the Rams in the N.F.C. championship game after a blown call helped the Rams send the game to overtime. The N.F.L.’s commissioner, Roger Goodell, later admitted the call was blown.Though New Orleans isn’t one of the country’s largest television markets, it is one of the most fervent for football, typically rating among the highest in the country for the proportion of households watching the Super Bowl. But Sunday’s game only earned a 26.1 overnight rating in New Orleans; last year’s Super Bowl earned a 53.0. It was the lowest rating for New Orleans in Super Bowl history.Instead of watching the game, thousands of Saints fans staged a French Quarter protest parade. LaToya Cantrell, the mayor of New Orleans, even showed up at the Boycott Bowl concert. A number of Saints fans have filed long-shot lawsuits against the N.F.L.The local newspaper, The Times-Picayune, got in on the fun too. “Super Bowl? What Super Bowl?” asked the front page of Monday’s edition, which was otherwise blank. A former Saints running back, Pierre Thomas, certainly agreed, tweeting approvingly that the front page was “championship level petty.”Fans in Kansas City, whose Chiefs lost to the Patriots in the A.F.C. championship game, were also turned off, though not nearly to the same extent. Super Bowl ratings in Kansas City were down 11 percent compared to last year.The Super Bowl’s smaller viewership ran counter to the success the N.F.L. had on television this season. Every time slot for N.F.L. game earned higher ratings during the 2018 regular season, a total gain of 5 percent.The regular season pointing one way and the Super Bowl pointing another isn’t necessarily unusual. Both the 2017 and 2018 Super Bowls suffered modest overnight ratings declines from the previous Super Bowl, but they were smaller than the major viewership declines the N.F.L. suffered during both of those regular seasons.There was also some unknown number of people who boycotted the game because of what they view as the unfair treatment of Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who has not been able to land even a backup job with an N.F.L. team the past two seasons. Kaepernick became a controversial figure in 2016 when he began kneeling during the national anthem to bring attention to police brutality and other issues affecting minorities and economically disadvantaged people in America.Despite the fourth straight year of a viewership decline, the Super Bowl will almost assuredly be the year’s most-watched program, boasting tens of millions more viewers than anything else on television. In a fragmenting market and amid declining audiences for traditional television across the board, football remains king. In 2018, 46 of the top 50 most watched telecasts were N.F.L. games.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonKANSAS CITY, Mo. — The N.F.L. this season finally appeared to have accomplished its goal of “getting back to football” after several years of off-field turmoil that ranged from player misconduct to weekly protests during the national anthem. But the league’s bounce-back season was knocked off stride on Sunday, as officials in the two conference championship games made baffling, controversial calls that to some degree overshadowed the otherwise thrilling matchups.The calls — or noncalls — left legions of fans feeling their teams had been robbed of a chance to advance to the Super Bowl, and left others simply confused. Once again, the conversation Monday focused as much on the meaning of penalties like roughing the passer and pass interference — and why they were or weren’t called — as it did about the outcome of the games themselves.The officiating uproar may lead to even more rule changes, video reviews and coaches’ challenges. Those could make games even longer despite the league’s professed goal of cutting down stoppages. And another debate is likely to ensue about the use of technology, which sometimes fails to provide the closure it promises.The most glaring incident,  the one that will be talked about for years, occurred in New Orleans, where the Saints were playing the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.C. championship game. Late in the fourth quarter, with the score tied and the Saints deep in Los Angeles territory and threatening to take the lead, Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman drilled Saints receiver Tommylee Lewis well before the ball arrived. The referees could have called a penalty for pass interference or for a helmet-to-helmet hit, but they called neither. Judgment calls like pass interference are not subject to video review.The Saints were forced to immediately settle for a field goal, leaving enough time on the clock for the Rams to march down the field and kick a field goal of their own that sent the game into overtime. The Rams ended up winning, 26-23.“It was simple: They blew the call,” Saints Coach Sean Payton said after the game. He had spoken to the league office, he said, and officials there had admitted as much to him.Even Robey-Coleman admitted that, having been beaten on the play, he targeted Lewis instead of the ball and deserved to be penalized.“I felt more than lucky; I felt blessed,” he said.The A.F.C. championship game in Kansas City got off to a controversy-free start. But as the Chiefs battled back from a first-half deficit against the New England Patriots, another officiating decision, midway through the fourth quarter, brought the game to a halt. It came when the Chiefs appeared to score a touchdown after Patriots receiver Julian Edelman, serving as the team’s punt returner, seemed to have touched a punt that Kansas City then picked up and took into the end zone, though under the N.F.L.’s rules, the Chiefs would not have been allowed to advance the ball because Edelman never truly had possession.After a lengthy video review, the referees determined that the ball never touched Edelman, even though replays suggested that it might have just barely nicked his thumbs. The Patriots ended up with the ball, taking some momentum away from Kansas City, but the Chiefs quickly intercepted a Tom Brady pass and went on to score a touchdown anyway. Still, the ruling by the referees was hard to put aside.Chiefs fans were also aggrieved by a roughing-the-passer call on a second-and-7 in the fourth quarter after defensive lineman Chris Jones landed a seemingly innocuous slap on Brady’s shoulder as he made a throw. A 15-yard penalty was enforced, and the Patriots went on to score one of the go-ahead touchdowns that punctuated the last part of the game.And finally, after all the controversy, the Patriots completed a 13-play, 75-yard scoring drive in overtime to win the game and move on to the Super Bowl in Atlanta, where they will face the Rams. It will be the third straight Super Bowl for Brady and his coach, Bill Belichick, and their fourth in five seasons. It will also be their ninth Super Bowl in the last two decades, with New England winning five of the previous eight.As exciting as they were, Sunday’s two games left some fans feeling that asterisks should be affixed to the final scores, a sentiment that may tarnish some of the positive signs for the N.F.L. this season. Though concussions and health issues remain a simmering concern, television viewership rebounded after two years of decline, merchandise sales have jumped and there were significantly fewer off-field controversies compared with recent years.Much of the renewed interest comes from a bevy of young stars, like quarterback Patrick Mahomes of the Chiefs, and a bunch of scoring records that fell faster than you can say “Brady to Edelman.”“Last year, the N.F.L. got past some of their big issues, and people were back to enjoying their teams this season,” said Michael Rubin, the founder and executive chairman of Fanatics, the league’s official online retailer. “There’s a great class of new players.”This time last season, the N.F.L. was struggling with fallout from the furor created by players who were kneeling during the playing of the national anthem to protest racial inequality and allegations of police brutality. In addition to that issue, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys threatened to sue other owners to stop the commissioner’s contract from being extended. And the Carolina Panthers’ owner decided to sell his team after a Sports Illustrated article detailed a culture of sexual harassment at the club.This season was not entirely free of such controversy. There was the release of a security video showing Kareem Hunt, a star running back on the Chiefs, shoving and kicking a woman. Hunt was suspended indefinitely and then released by his team, and the league was criticized yet again for not doing enough to punish players involved in off-field violence.The scandal did not dominate the season the way similar incidents have in previous years, largely because the video was released toward the end of the season. By then, interest in games had already rebounded.Rubin’s company has been one of the biggest beneficiaries. Sales of N.F.L.-licensed merchandise at Fanatics has risen by 25 percent this season — about $100 million.Mahomes had the third-best-selling jersey, after Bears linebacker Khalil Mack and Brady. Demand for the Mahomes jersey was so strong there has been a backlog of orders.Other new stars goosed sales, too. After quarterback Baker Mayfield helped Cleveland break its long losing streak, sales of Browns merchandise soared nearly 100 times compared with the same week the season before. Jerseys of two rookies, Giants running back Saquon Barkley and Cowboys linebacker Leighton Vander Esch, were also among the top 15 best-selling jerseys in the regular season.“There’s been an influx of these young guys who have come in and done a nice job,” Chiefs Coach Andy Reid said last week. “That’s great for the game. That’s why we’re all doing it.”These “young guys” are one reason average television viewership rose by 5 percent this season compared with a year ago. Every network, including ESPN, NBC, Fox and CBS, and every time slot — Sundays, Mondays, Thursdays — showed improved numbers.In addition, teams in major media markets including Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles made the playoffs this season.With the Saints and the Chiefs now eliminated, the Super Bowl will offer an intriguing contrast. The fourth-youngest team in the league, the Rams, who are led by a 32-year-old coach, Sean McVay, will face a Patriots team that has made participation in the Super Bowl almost an annual event. And then there is the fact that Brady is actually nine years older than McVay and that the 66-year-old Belichick is more than twice his age.That should make for great conversation — assuming the referees don’t blow any more calls.An earlier version of this article misstated the potential result of a play in Sunday’s A.F.C. championship game. If officials had ruled that New England’s Julian Edelman touched a punted ball without actually possessing it, the Kansas City Chiefs would have gained possession, but they would not have scored a touchdown.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe CoscarelliATLANTA — “Welcome to Atlanta, out-of-towners!” the hip-hop carnival barker Lil Jon screamed to a full arena on Thursday night, as he baptized the Super Bowl weekend crowd with a torrent of regional hits.It was the halftime show that never could be — a charmingly slapdash, nearly five-hour profane parade of local heroes and of-the-moment aspirants that represented a specific place and point of view too hot for an audience north of 100 million.Though the annual mid-game concert, which lasts fewer than 15 minutes, is rarely tied to the Super Bowl’s location, this year’s choice of a headliner — the anodyne pop band Maroon 5 — has proved controversial on two fronts: First, for its lack of fealty to the host city’s constantly regenerating pool of black musical talent, and also because of reports that more au courant stars turned down the N.F.L. in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick. (The late addition of the rappers Travis Scott and Big Boi, of the Atlanta duo Outkast, did little to quell the consternation and head-scratching given the three acts’ obvious incongruity.)[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]Still, Atlanta has shown itself to be more than willing to make the most of the festivities. On Thursday, at the first night of the Super Bowl Music Fest at the State Farm Arena downtown, the city’s hip-hop royalty came together for a reverse-chronological survey of Atlanta music this century, from Lil Baby, 21 Savage and Migos to Ludacris, Jeezy and T.I. (The Music Fest concerts were scheduled to continue with more Super Bowl-esque lineups on Friday, with Post Malone and Aerosmith, and Saturday, featuring Bruno Mars and Cardi B.)Though the event was temporally and nominally linked to the N.F.L. — and came with a bevy of corporate sponsorships — football felt like an afterthought, and the crowd booed when periodic commercials for the league interrupted the music.Instead, the concert felt like the celebration of Atlanta that was unlikely to happen on Sunday. And it was part of a constellation of local events, many overseen by the Atlanta Super Bowl LIII Host Committee, that sought to highlight the city’s rich cultural past and present, including six nights of free, genre-spanning concerts at Centennial Olympic Park. (There were no shortage of unofficial parties, after-parties and after-after parties, as well, with many local artists packing multiple appearances into each night.)“I’m not going to say anything bad about Maroon 5 — I love Maroon 5,” said Maya Neguse, a 20-year-old student, as the concert began. “It’s just that they’re not lit enough for the Super Bowl.”Indeed, the arena was ready to move, responding with special enthusiasm to dance crazes that originated locally (“Swag Surfin,” “Crank That (Soulja Boy),” “Laffy Taffy”) and regional references. “If you went to Freaknik make some noise,” said Big Tigger, the night’s occasional M.C., at one point, referring to the storied black college spring break gathering. “If your mama went to Freaknik make some noise,” he added to much louder cheers, revealing the plethora of what he called “’90s babies” in the audience.The night’s performances also served as a genealogical chart for the local scene. Shorter sets from the current princes of Atlanta, like 21 Savage, Lil Yachty and Lil Baby, gave way to a fuller performance by their relative elders in Migos, who welcomed to the stage everyone’s godfather, Gucci Mane. (The most notable absences of the night were from the in-between micro-generation: Future and Young Thug.)Then came the foundational contingent — the artists who might actually be able to hold down a Super Bowl stage if Southern hip-hop could crystallize into classic rap, à la classic rock. Lil Jon, who went from crunk pioneer to EDM conqueror and is now 48, played both rapper and D.J., delivering his well-worn chants — “Get Low,” “Neva Eva (Get On My Level)” — and those of his contemporaries in Crime Mob, Ying Yang Twins and YoungBloodZ.Ludacris, the headliner, also stuck to greatest hits and demonstrations of local unity, beginning with the anthemic “Welcome to Atlanta” and a brief cameo by Jermaine Dupri. After running through the most recognizable parts of his catalog with a full band — the first of the night — Ludacris welcomed the concert’s only female performer, Ciara, who did her best to supply feminine energy with some two dozen backup dancers.From there, as the clock passed 1 a.m., Ludacris was joined by Jeezy (formerly Young Jeezy) and, eventually, T.I., for a brief foray into their proto-trap music. The three men, seemingly mellowed by age and success, stood shoulder to shoulder performing the 2005 song “Bang,” which warns outsiders to mind local Atlanta customs.“When you come this city, just know,” T.I. said as the track ended. “It’s us.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNAdam Fromm’s puzzle does a number on us.By Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUZZLE — On the one hand, the punny title for this breezy puzzle is a natural; on the other hand, it made me laugh at myself a little. First I sort of bristled, considering how the term “hysteria” targets my gender, and how aware we are becoming of so many women’s unsung contributions to math and computer programming, among other subjects. But it also made me think of that “Teen Talk” Barbie that famously said “math class is hard!”  back in the ’90s, and how that inspired the Barbie Liberation Organization. Besides, the theme examples from Adam Fromm today are so amusing and tight that I have thrown away my math baggage. In an era when I look to the calculator on my phone to come up with an 18 percent tip on a $50 lunch tab, I consider my personal 2019 mathematics brush-up challenge finito, simply by solving this grid.I thought there was a lot of verve and toughness in the filler clues today. A handful of names tripped me up, like SIRI (which made me feel old! I wrote in “Jude”), NIKI, AIDAN, GIOTTO and ROSITA, who did not make her appearance on “Sesame Street” until 1991. I really loved the inclusion of SHMOO and SHOOP, and I thought that ANNI was a very sly little hat tip to the whole puzzle.8A: It’s possible that the mention of this parkway, the TACONIC, evokes the same frisson of dread that math does among some of us — it is an early motorway, started in the 1920s, that has earned a reputation for being challenging to drive. 46A: I had “seller” here till the near end, a perfectly logical choice, but letters two and three would not jibe with their crosses — a hairstyle and another “seller,” actually, this one of “Famous Bowls” (football competitions? kitchenware?). A fishmonger is also a SCALER — that hairstyle is a FADE (a popular choice for many of you, I’m sure) and that “Bowl” is KFC fried chicken (in a bowl, with well-known mashed potatoes, notorious corn, celebrity cheese and some paparazzi gravy on top). 103A: Usually this scientist is clued as a winner of the Nobel Prize, or more specifically a “conditioned reflex researcher,” or my favorite from 1973, “Russian dog man.” If you are specifically referring to dog training, then I can do what PAVLOV did just by bringing home, I don’t know, a Famous Bowl every day at 3 p.m. for a week or two. My dogs found a piece of moldy cheese under a bush in my neighborhood almost two years ago and they still leave trails of drool when we walk down that street. I know, that’s a little different, but I still find it poignant that they continue to hope for more cheese. 43D: This piece of a motor is pretty recognizable if you look at one of those blown-out parts images, but I didn’t think of the STATOR as unmoving (and the name itself didn’t come to mind, either). 51D: Coincidentally, this exact route was on my mind this week, because at some point I was alerted to this recent photo essay, a very moody look at “The LONELIEST Road in America.” I don’t often see this part of the United States in person, but the allure of wide-open spaces is tangible when you are packed jowl to jowl on a subway car, inching through a tunnel. Or gripping your steering wheel grimly on the Taconic while S.U.V.s hurtle past you, come to think of it.Sometimes the Sunday theme is a big secret you need to figure out before you get anywhere, like the proverbial duck the size of a horse. Sometimes it is a bunch of little duckling-size horses that you have to corral one by one, like today’s puzzle. There are seven across clues, at 22, 39, 47, 67, 86, 95 and 116, that each present a cryptic equation. Our job is to solve them, and we get no credit for showing our work.They all rely on various mathematical operations, I guess, although 95A is really more a notation thing, I guess, if that’s what you would call a decimal. Put your pun hat on for the BB in “3.BB” and you’ll get it: THREE (3) POINT (.) SHOT (BB, as in BB gun).86A is algebraic, with a variable divisor — X — and four $ signs, making a CASH DIVIDEND (how much we can’t say, but it’s money).39A is the purest form of a balanced equation — “x — y = x — y.” True — both sides are the SAME DIFFERENCE.My favorite, which had no actual numbers, was one of the occasional puzzle tricks that I remember thinking of once in the past, probably at one of those family meetings where everyone somberly discusses what to do when the piano falls through the ceiling and we need to know how to settle all the unforeseen debts (the piano was supposed to be full of rare coins, but they were worthless, all lead slugs). It is at 116A, and if you recognize “Esq.” as the lawyerly suffix then you can see what this is POWER OF ATTORNEY — “X” raised to the power of “Esq.” — an exponential quantity of lawyers.As long as you went to junior high school and know your West Coast newspapers and your satanic numerology, you will ace the rest of this test. I wish I understood how my brain works. A decade ago I saw a photoshop contest on the theme of “scary road signs,” whose entries included one enforcing a speed limit of the square root of 666. I haven’t the foggiest idea why my brain held onto that image, or why it dragged the memory out kicking and screaming 10 years later just for the sake of generating a “root of all evil” pun. Once it did, though, and because every dang thing becomes a theme in this hobby, there was no way I wasn’t going to run with it. (It wasn’t until writing this blurb that I went looking for the original image, only to discover that it actually showed the square root of 677. I give up, brain.)This represents my second attempt at the concept after the first was rejected by Will, who liked the theme but not the execution; some but not all of the theme entries in that original go-round relied on homophones, like SINE OF THE TIMES (sin[AxB]) and HALF A GOOD DAY (. 5 x 12/25), which proved inconsistent. The do-over is much tighter over all with a minimum of wince-and-hide-my-eyes fill, which isn’t to say that I wouldn’t love to gut the SW corner another six times. The fill went relatively quickly, although the nipping and tucking portion of the process dragged on for quite a while. You’d think I’d have learned by now to hack away at the center first, where everything crashes into everything else Michael Bay-style, but old habits die awfully hard. And yes, I was a math major before switching to English, which is as good an explanation not only for this puzzle but also for why I do this in the first place. Such is life.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew DasSouth America’s top soccer official on Thursday rejected an invitation to take part in a proposed intercontinental tournament hosted and financed by U.S. Soccer in the summer of 2020, saying the continent’s governing body preferred to maintain the primacy of its own continental championship, the Copa América.U.S. Soccer President Carlos Cordeiro had made the offer for a combined tournament featuring South America’s 10 teams and six from the region comprising North and Central America and the Caribbean in a letter earlier this week. U.S. Soccer’s offer would have been worth tens of millions of dollars for the South American teams, their regional rivals who took part, and the two confederations governing soccer in the Americas.But in a letter to Cordeiro dated Wednesday, first reported by the Brazilian news outlet Globo, the president of the South American federation, Alejandro Dominguez, categorically rejected the invitation to a proposed Continental Cup in 2020. Dominguez’s letter cited a lack of FIFA approval for the new event, but also a preference to prioritize the Copa América, which is the oldest international soccer championship in the world.Last year, officials from the South American confederation, Conmebol, announced plans to shift the Copa América to a quadrennial schedule starting in the summer of 2020.But U.S. Soccer, frustrated by a lack of progress in talks for a combined international tournament, invited South America’s 10 soccer federations to take part in a 16-team championship held in the United States. The framework of the new tournament would have been similar to the 2016 Copa América Centenario, a one-time tournament celebrating the event’s 100th anniversary that was a financial and sporting success. U.S. Soccer sweetened its offer for 2020 with nearly $200 million in guarantees to the visiting teams and their confederations.In his letter inviting the South Americans, Cordeiro said U.S. Soccer was offering to underwrite the new event and guarantee each nation — and both confederations — millions of dollars in appearance fees, subsidized travel and bonuses for each point earned. The champions could take home a prize of more than $11 million. Conmebol and its northern neighbor, Concacaf, would receive $50 million each to go along. Cordeiro invited Conmebol officials to a meeting in Miami next week to discuss the proposal.U.S. Soccer did not immediately reply to a request for comment on Conmebol’s decision to decline the offer.For the past year, soccer officials across the Americas have held discussions about creating a quadrennial tournament involving national teams from both continents. The Copa América will take place as planned this summer in Brazil, with Japan and Qatar filling the two guest spots often reserved for teams from Concacaf. Concacaf will hold its own regional championship, the Gold Cup, at the same time.If the offer to Conmebol is not revived, U.S. Soccer is expected to press ahead with plans for a scaled-down tournament featuring national teams from other continents, potentially including Africa and Asia.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss an Op-Ed that argued it would be harmful to college sports.To the Editor:Re “Don’t Pay College Athletes,” by Cody J. McDavis (Op-Ed, Feb. 26): Wait a minute. Isn’t the purpose of college to provide an education? Division I sports (particularly football and basketball) have so corrupted college athletics that we have totally lost sight of the purpose of college. Higher education would be much better off if all colleges and universities followed Division III rules — academic scholarships only.As Mr. McDavis suggests, let the National Basketball Association developmental league pay aspiring young basketball talent. Also, let minor league baseball continue to pay aspiring young baseball players. And organize developmental football leagues, with pay, for aspiring pro football players.The issue is not whether the “students” should be paid, but whether professional sports belong in universities at all.Tom BarnardShaker Heights, OhioTo the Editor:Cody J. McDavis is of the opinion that paying athletes to play college sports is wrong and would ruin college sports. We are already on that road to ruin and have been for some time. Unfortunately the top divisions of college football and basketball have become predictable to the point of boredom. Sure, there is the occasional interloper (Virginia Commonwealth University, George Mason, Butler), but generally the same teams are in the mix in both sports. Think Alabama and Clemson in football, and Duke, Kentucky, North Carolina and Michigan in basketball.We should face facts, pay the students and be done with the romantic notion that this is all about school spirit and amateur competition. It is all about money and nothing more.Some rule, any rule, that would keep students in school for four years would be more in keeping with the spirit of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. However, given the level of money and corruption, real change is not going to happen. Paying the athletes would be at least a small step toward honesty.Gerald BowmanMunichTo the Editor:Cody J. McDavis says paying college athletes would create an “arms race” in which only a select group of college programs could compete. In reality, the arms race is exactly how college sports currently function. This is particularly true for major college football and basketball programs. Colleges build multimillion-dollar sports facilities to attract top recruits. And salaries for coaches at major football and basketball programs have ballooned in recent years. What would you call this if not an arms race? Worse yet, because the N.C.A.A. cartel has prevented the players from receiving fair compensation, the winners in this arms race are the coaches and athletic directors. Unsurprisingly, these are usually the first people to argue against paying players.While an arms race governs major college sports for a select group of top programs, a healthy ecosystem exists with opportunities for mid-major and nonscholarship intercollegiate competition. I am personally grateful that such an opportunity existed for me, and I am confident that a similar opportunity would exist even if the most successful college players were paid fairly. Compensating those at the top of this structure for the value they bring will not ruin college sports. It will ensure that college sports remain something enjoyed by many fans, students and alumni.Jack HeneghanGlendale, Ariz.The writer played quarterback at Dartmouth before a brief stint with the San Francisco 49ers. He now plays for the Arizona Hotshots in the Alliance of American Football.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWith all of the trade drama surrounding Anthony Davis and Kristaps Porzingis, the N.B.A. intruded on the N.F.L.’s run-up to the Super Bowl as we have not seen since Kobe Bryant scored 81 points on football’s so-called Championship Sunday in 2006.Now that the Super Bowl is over and even more of North America’s sporting consciousness is there to be seized by professional basketball’s tireless headline-makers, here is our best advice: Buckle up.What follows is a by-the-numbers look at what the N.B.A.’s 73rd season has served up so far — and what the next five months hold.Through Sunday’s games, only the Milwaukee Bucks were on a 60-win pace. The Bucks’ Eastern Conference-leading record of 38-13 projects to a 61-win campaign — which could keep this season from being the league’s first since 2000-1 without a 60-win club.There are realistically 11 teams battling for the Western Conference’s eight playoff spots, after the new calendar year began with 14 teams in the conference — all but Phoenix — in the race. Dallas, New Orleans and Memphis have dropped off in January, prompting all three teams to focus more on trades than the standings.The consensus top three in the Most Valuable Player Award race coming out of Super Bowl weekend are Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, Houston’s James Harden and Denver’s Nikola Jokic. According to the Basketball-Reference.com M.V.P. Award Tracker, Antetokounmpo awoke Sunday with a 37.8 percent chance of winning — far ahead of Harden’s 21.1 percent.Harden has scored at least 30 points in 26 consecutive games, good for the third-longest such streak in N.B.A. annals behind Wilt Chamberlain’s streaks of 65 and 31.The league’s trade deadline (Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern) is three days away. This is the second season since 1978-79 (as far back as reliable N.B.A. record-keeping goes) that the deadline falls before the All-Star Game.The New Orleans Pelicans have made two trips to the playoffs — winning only one series — in Davis’s first six seasons with the team. Davis requested a trade on Jan. 28.It took 54 days for the Minnesota Timberwolves to find a trade they liked for Jimmy Butler after Butler’s request to be dealt became public Sept. 18. Butler was snubbed by East coaches in All-Star voting, but the potential ceiling for Philadelphia’s rugged new star threesome was evident Thursday night at Golden State, when Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Butler and Company brought a halt to the longest winning streak of the season — after the Warriors had won 11 in a row.Minnesota is 21-18 since the trade that sent Butler and Justin Patton to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 — and 6-6 since firing Tom Thibodeau, the coach/team president who made it, on Jan. 6. Ryan Saunders, Thibodeau’s 32-year-old replacement, has many admirers around the league, but the Wolves are a long way from convincing skeptics that the deal (to bring in Robert Covington, Dario Saric, Jerryd Bayless and a 2022 second-round pick) was sufficient for a player of Butler’s caliber.Thibodeau is one of three coaches to be fired this season — after nine coaching changes in the off-season. The other coaches to lose their jobs since opening night: Cleveland’s Tyronn Lue and Chicago’s Fred Hoiberg.There were 20 teams, entering Sunday’s play, attempting at least 30 3-pointers a game. This is poised to become the first season in N.B.A. history that the leaguewide average per game (31.4) will finish in the 30s.With coaches calling for more 3-pointers than ever before and greenlighting shots earlier and earlier in the 24-second shot clock — along with a new rule that resets the shot clock at 14 seconds on offensive rebounds — teams are averaging 100.0 possessions per 48 minutes leaguewide. The last N.B.A. season in which that figure finished in triple digits was 1988-89 (100.6).Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton, Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic, Philadelphia’s Simmons and Denver’s Jokic will make their All-Star Game debuts Feb. 17 in Charlotte, N.C. The All-Star player draft, in which the captains LeBron James and Antetokounmpo will fill out 13-man rosters by picking players playground-style, is Thursday at 7 p.m. — just four hours after the trade deadline passes. (D’Angelo Russell of the Nets, who was named later as a replacement for Indiana’s Victor Oladipo, who is injured, will also be making his All-Star debut this year.)Four teams are in contention for the league’s worst record: Phoenix (11-43), Cleveland (11-42), Chicago (12-41) and, of course, the Knicks (10-42). The teams that finish in the bottom three will share a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in the draft in June in the first year of the league’s revised lottery system.San Antonio sits a surprising fifth in the West, at 32-22, in its first season since trading Kawhi Leonard to Toronto in July. The Spurs are bidding for a record 22nd consecutive playoff berth, a streak that began in Gregg Popovich’s first full season as Spurs coach in 1997-98.At 27-25, Sacramento is on course to post its first winning record since the 2005-6 season. But the Kings will have to leapfrog at least two teams to stop the league’s longest playoff drought (12 seasons). The Suns (nine seasons) and the Orlando Magic (seven) are on course to extend their own playoff droughts.The Lakers’ playoff drought will hit a hard-to-believe six seasons in a row if James cannot save Los Angeles over its final 29 games. James just missed 17 consecutive games with a strained groin — the longest injury absence of his pro career — and is at risk for missing the postseason for the first time since his second N.B.A. season, in 2004-5.Carmelo Anthony finally became an unrestricted free agent on Sunday after clearing waivers nearly three months after the Houston Rockets sent him away in November after just 10 games together. The Rockets traded Anthony to Chicago on Jan. 21; the Bulls, who needed a roster spot, waived him Friday without him spending a single second with the team.In the seven games Golden State has deployed a lineup of DeMarcus Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, that group is averaging 127.1 points per 100 possessions in 54 minutes. Call it a small but ominous sample size.Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have the Warriors as overwhelming favorites to win their third consecutive championship and fourth in five seasons. According to ActionNetwork.com, Golden State is -225 to win it all, meaning that you would have to bet $225 to win $100. Boston, Milwaukee and Toronto are next in line at +1,000, meaning that a $100 bet would win $1,000 if any of those teams won the title.One scribe’s ranking of the top 10 players who could be unrestricted free agents July 1: Durant, Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Thompson, Butler, Kemba Walker, Cousins, Middleton, Marc Gasol and Tobias Harris.The N.B.A. playoffs start April 13.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia this weekend found himself enmeshed in controversy — and then self-inflicted confusion. First, he apologized for appearing in a photo, on his medical-school yearbook page, showing someone in blackface and another person dressed as a Ku Klux Klan member. But he recanted a day later, saying he was sure he was not in the photograph.Then things got weirder: In the process of issuing his denial, Northam said he remembered another moment in his youth when he did darken his face as part of a Michael Jackson costume. That, he suggested, helped to clear his name in this instance. Trevor Noah said Northam’s defense didn’t make much sense, and Seth Meyers said it wasn’t really a defense at all.“It does make it more believable that it wasn’t him in the photo, because who would defend themselves by admitting to a different crime? Your honor, I couldn’t be the Boston Strangler, because I’m the Philadelphia Strangler! Go Eagles!’” — TREVOR NOAH“That’s not a defense — that’s a confession. Try that the next time a cop pulls you over: ‘Officer, I’m totally sober. Usually when I drive drunk I swerve a lot more.’” — SETH MEYERS“February is Black History Month. ‘Oh, my God, I don’t even have a costume yet,’ said Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam.” — SETH MEYERSOn Sunday, the Patriots beat the Rams, 13-3, in what was the lowest-scoring Super Bowl in history. It might have been the most boring one, too. Conan O’Brien said he was surprised to find he took no joy from seeing his team win. “That was hard to watch — and I’m a Patriots fan!” he said.“I found that to be — what is the opposite of a nail-biter? It was a nail-grower. I thought I was watching a baseball game.” — CONAN O’BRIENJimmy Fallon took sharp aim at the Rams, whose three points on Sunday tied them for last place in Super Bowl history.“Rams quarterback Jared Goff just couldn’t score. Americans said, ‘If we wanted to see a football player who couldn’t score, we’d watch Colton on ‘The Bachelor.’” — JIMMY FALLON“I read that over 10 million workers called in sick to work today. That doesn’t include the 53 Rams who skipped work last night.” — JIMMY FALLON“That’s right, Trump doesn’t want his son to have brain damage, which is strange because usually fathers want their children to follow in their footsteps.” — TREVOR NOAH, reacting to President Trump’s statement that he would have a “hard time” allowing his son Barron to play football for fears about his health“On Tuesday, Donald Trump is giving his State of the Union address. So yesterday it was Maroon 5 — tomorrow, it’s Orange 1. Please, don’t take your shirt off, sir.” — STEPHEN COLBERT, referring to the Maroon 5 lead singer Adam Levine’s scantily clad performance at the Super Bowl halftime showHere are a few football agnostics in Los Angeles who thought the Rams had won the Super Bowl — or were willing to say so on camera, at least.Seth Meyers focused his “Closer Look” segment on the Governor Northam scandal.Colbert will follow the State of the Union address with a live “Late Show” broadcast. His guests will include the TV journalists Gayle King and John Dickerson and the director Spike Lee.The Museum of Modern Art will be closed all summer as it renovates its galleries, freeing up 40,000 new square feet of space with the stated goal of putting a new focus on works by women, Latinos, Asians, African-Americans and other overlooked artists.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanThe divisional round of the N.F.L. playoffs has come and gone, confirming some things we knew — the Patriots are devastatingly good at home, the Chiefs play football like it’s a video game, etc. — while revealing some new wrinkles for both the four losing teams and the victors headed to the conference championship games. As we look ahead to next weekend, we can look back at what we learned from this week’s games. Taysom Hill is more than a decoy. The Saints’ backup quarterback was called on primarily for short runs this season. On three plays in his team’s win over Philadelphia, the former Brigham Young star showed he is capable of far more than that. His 4-yard run on a fake punt set up the Saints’ first touchdown, and later in the game he very nearly caught a 46-yard touchdown pass from Drew Brees. And his arcing, 46-yard touchdown pass to Alvin Kamara in the third quarter may have been overturned because of a holding penalty, but the ease with which Hill hit Kamara in stride on the deep throw is something defensive coordinators surely will not forget. Taysom Hill had a touchdown to Alvin Kamara but it was called backpic.twitter.com/e94zYDGUdpTom Brady can still summon that underdog spirit. After demolishing the Los Angeles Chargers, 41-28, the Patriots quarterback, who is about to appear in his eighth consecutive A.F.C. championship game, told reporters that no one believes in his team. “I know everyone thinks we suck and can’t win any games,” he said. Julian Edelman, who passed Reggie Wayne for the second-most career postseason catches by a receiver, concurred, saying, “We’re the underdog this week. I’m going to jump on that train and roll with it.”Tom Brady has reached 13 conference championships in 17 completed seasons (76.5%) as a starting quarterback (excluding 2008). Brady has reached the conference championship at a higher rate than: pic.twitter.com/r9tQ72vPiAC.J. Anderson was a terrific pickup for the Rams. The six-year veteran was cut by the Carolina Panthers on Nov. 13, then tried and failed get a spot on the lowly Oakland Raiders, and eventually landed in Los Angeles in Week 16 as an insurance policy behind Todd Gurley. In three games for the Rams, including their 30-22 win over the Dallas Cowboys on Saturday, the 27-year-old Anderson has rushed for a combined 422 yards and four touchdowns. That Anderson had 123 yards against the Cowboys even though Gurley was back on the field spoke volumes about the Rams’ faith in their backup. The Chiefs are more than just Patrick Mahomes. The second-year quarterback is the justified focus of any defensive effort against Kansas City after his 50-touchdown regular season, but the Chiefs demolished the Indianapolis Colts, 31-13 without Mahomes throwing a touchdown pass. He did rush for a score, and the Chiefs got three other rushing touchdowns from three different players, including one in which Damien Williams juked a pair of Colts defenders nearly out of their shoes.There is a limit to Nick Foles’s magic. The Eagles’ backup quarterback came into the game with a 4-0 record in the playoffs over the last two seasons, and even had people debating how Philadelphia would handle things between Foles and Carson Wentz if Foles went on another extended playoff run. He started almost flawlessly on Sunday, but when he got the ball back with his team down by just 6 points in the fourth quarter, a pass of his sailed through Alshon Jeffery’s hands and into the waiting arms of the Saints’ Marshon Lattimore, ending the Eagles’s hopes. As so much of the Foles’s story line relies on things inexplicably working out for the quarterback, that’s the type of play that will end the debates quickly.Philip Rivers still hates facing Tom Brady. The Chargers’ quarterback has had a fine career that could likely land him in the Hall of Fame, but he has never beaten Brady. That point was again driven home — emphatically — on Sunday, as New England’s defenders had Rivers flailing right away, while Brady calmly picked apart the Los Angeles defense.The Cowboys live and die by Ezekiel Elliott. The superstar running back had an uncharacteristically poor game against the Los Angeles Rams on Saturday, carrying the ball 20 times for just 47 yards. In 28 career regular season games in which Elliott has carried the ball at least 20 times, the Cowboys have gone 22-6, but to find playoff success, Dallas may need to find some more offensive balance. As it stands, they are 1-2 in the playoffs since drafting Elliott.Darius Leonard is a monster. Indianapolis was eliminated by Kansas City, but Leonard, the Colts’ rookie linebacker, got to show off how much ground he can cover, generating 14 tackles and recovering a fumble in the losing effort. If the Colts’ offense gets fully healthy, and the defense can put more pieces around Leonard, Indianapolis could be a dominant team in the near future.N.F.C. Championship: Los Angeles Rams (13-3) at New Orleans Saints (13-3)3:05 p.m., FoxA.F.C. Championship: New England Patriots (11-5) at Kansas City Chiefs (12-4)6:40 p.m., CBSExpect some offense: The four surviving teams ranked first through fourth in points scored this season.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe competition’s third round, when the Premier League’s giants join the lower-level dreamers, has been devalued by disinterest. But there’s still joy if you know where to look. By Rory Smith and Tariq PanjaACCRINGTON, England — Andy Holt is standing at the door to the bar, watching the celebrations unfold. On the field, Accrington Stanley’s players are in the middle of an impromptu lap of honor, pumping their fists and beaming broad smiles. John Coleman, their manager, is conducting the crowd’s chanting, soaking in their adulation.Holt, the club’s owner, does not seek to join them, to bask in their reflected glory. But still, as fans start to leave, a steady stream heads toward him, hands outstretched, wanting to offer their congratulations, or share their glee.He greets each one like an old friend. “You should come in here, it’s only a pound a pint,” he tells one. Another is reassured that the prize money for the victory will be reinvested in the team. “That’s £135,000, that is,” he says. “It’ll go straight into the squad.”On one level, that is what the F.A. Cup means to a club like Accrington Stanley, and to a chairman like Holt. Though Coleman’s team is now thriving in League One — English soccer’s third tier — it is doing so on a fourth-tier budget. By beating Ipswich Town, which competes a division higher, in the third round of the world’s oldest cup competition, Accrington has earned around a tenth of its annual revenue in a single day.For Holt, the bigger thrill, though, is what may be to come. Should Accrington be drawn to face one of the Premier League’s giants in the next round — Holt had hoped for Manchester United or Arsenal, though Monday night’s draw would later pair those two titans together — and should the game be selected for television, the rewards could approach £1 million: life-changing, season-defining, horizon-expanding money. “There are not many chances for a club like us to get access to football’s fortunes,” Holt said. “The F.A. Cup is one of them. You could do a lot with a million pounds, around Accrington.”Accrington was not the only club imagining those possibilities over the last four days. That has always been the charm of the F.A. Cup’s third-round weekend, traditionally the most romantic in England’s soccer calendar. This is the point when the teams from the country’s top two divisions, the Premier League and the second-tier Championship, enter the competition, alongside those from the lower tiers and any nonleague clubs that have survived an arduous campaign through the early rounds.That sense of opportunity has long made it fertile ground for surprises. It is in the F.A. Cup’s third round that the lesser lights have the chance to bloody the noses of the great and the good, when the coddled elite come unstuck in airless, ramshackle stadiums and on haphazard, mud-ridden fields.When they do, their conquerors gain a form of immortality: Hereford beating Newcastle in 1972; Sutton United overcoming Coventry in 1989; Wrexham’s win against Arsenal in 1992 — all of them now granted a place in the pantheon of giant-slayers, otherwise unremarkable names remembered in folklore by successive generations. If there is magic in the Cup, the spell is cast by third-round weekend.This year — as ever — a handful of teams maintained the tradition: Oldham, Newport County and Gillingham beat Premier League opposition. Barnet, of the fifth-tier Conference, overcame Sheffield United, a team in contention for promotion to the Premier League next season.By those standards, Accrington’s win barely counted as a shock: Ipswich Town is currently last in the Championship, enduring a miserable season. “It will be F.A. Cup magic if we manage to win,” said Mark Pinkney, an Ipswich fan who had made the journey to Accrington with his father, Harold, and son, James. The three generations had come to the low hills of Lancashire from England’s southeast coast because they hoped the Cup might provide a little “break” from the league.That, to many, is precisely the problem. For all that third-round weekend means in the hearts of many English soccer fans, for all the memories it conjures, it is now taken as a truism that it has lost some of its mystique, some of its appeal.Some fans, like Nick Mills, 43, a Grimsby Town supporter on his way to his team’s meeting with Crystal Palace of the Premier League, blame those teams who prioritize survival in the top flight over a shot at glory.“Teams like Palace and Newcastle: they’re the ones that have killed it, the teams where it is about Premier League survival,” he said. “Knocking Palace out would be an upset, but you’re expecting a reserve team.”Though the upsets still come, Mills is correct: those Premier League teams eliminated this year, as is now generally the case, were lacking most — if not all — of their first-choice players, many of them rested for what the club decided were more important games. Palace made it through, narrowly, in front of 6,000 traveling Grimsby fans, but it did so having made nine changes from its last Premier League game.Others cast the blame on the Football Association itself: for kick-starting the competition’s demise by allowing Manchester United to opt out in 2000, in favor of playing in that year’s Club World Cup in Brazil; for toying with various ideas — like abolishing replays of tied matches — to bow to the wishes of those Premier League clubs that see the Cup as an unwelcome distraction. This year, the F.A. was fiercely criticized for scheduling games at seemingly random times across the weekend to meet the demands of an international television deal, and using other matches as test runs for a video assistant referee system. “It’s a wonderful thing, the F.A. Cup,” Holt said. “It needs protecting.”Wherever the fault, the effects are obvious. At Burnley’s meeting with Barnsley, the Premier League hosts had tried to encourage more fans to come by reducing ticket prices to £10 for adults and £5 for children. Though the visiting team had brought a healthy contingent, Turf Moor, Burnley’s raucous stadium, was noticeably quieter than normal. Swaths of seats remained empty.Elsewhere, there were weakened teams named not only by the Premier League’s giants and those battling to avoid relegation from the top flight, but by those, like Leicester City, caught in the middle, and with nothing much else to play for. The trend is now mainstream: Championship teams often name weakened sides, too; the prize money on offer even for winning the F.A. Cup pales in comparison to the king’s ransom promotion to the Premier League would bring.Looked at from a distance, it is hard to see much magic left: teams of reserves contesting games they do not care about in front of half-empty stadiums, for the right to stay in a competition everyone involved sees as an afterthought.From close-up — at Burnley, at Accrington, at Crystal Palace — over the course of three games in eight hours on third-round Saturday, though, the picture changes. The Cup may not mean what it did; its halcyon days may be gone. But it still matters to some of those involved.Not just to the teams trying to win it, as proved by the sight of Sean Dyche, the Burnley manager, rendered apoplectic by V.A.R.’s overturning a penalty given to his team just as his striker, Matej Vydra, started his run-up to take it.But to the fans, too. “You’ll see a lot of kids today,” said Steve Wilkin, a program vendor sneaking glances at Grimsby-Palace at Selhurst Park. “Most of the ones you’ll see won’t be here at Premier League games.” Cup tickets are cheaper, more accessible; as at Burnley, the demographic inside Selhurst Park on Saturday skewed younger than the economics of English soccer ordinarily allow.For the Pinkney family and the rest of the 1,200 or so Ipswich fans who had made the 500-mile round trip to Accrington, north of Manchester, it was a chance to touch new territory. “We’ve never played them before, ever,” Mark Pinkney said. “There’ll be a lot of people here today who want to tick the stadium off the list.”The F.A. Cup may not have the prestige it once did; the annual discussion of how much better the Cup used to be may now be as much of a fixture of third-round weekend as the shocks and surprises. But it still provides opportunities: to visit new places, to see new teams, to welcome in new fans. It is still a place of possibilities.“It’s still a thrill for us,” said Holt, back in Accrington. Holt will have a little longer to cherish that feeling. Accrington will face the winner of a replay between the Southampton and Derby County in the fourth round. It is not quite the money-spinner he had hoped for, but there is more to the F.A. Cup than economics. There are memories to be made.Tariq Panja reported from London.An earlier version of this article misstated Coventry's status at the time of its loss to Sutton United in the 1989 F.A. Cup. Coventry won the Cup in 1987; it was not the holder at the time of its loss to Sutton United.Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.  @RorySmith AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor Mather and Kevin DraperJason Witten, the ironman Dallas Cowboys tight end who retired from the N.F.L. and joined “Monday Night Football” last year, announced Thursday that he would return to the team. By the time the season starts, he will be 37.“The fire inside of me to compete and play this game is just burning too strong,” Witten said in a statement. “This team has a great group of rising young stars, and I want to help them make a run at a championship. This was completely my decision, and I am very comfortable with it. I’m looking forward to getting back in the dirt.”The Cowboys were 10-6 last season with a wild-card playoff win. But their top tight end, Blake Jarwin, had only 307 receiving yards. Dallas missed the playoffs in Witten’s last season.When Witten retired in May, he said of his decision, “Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.”He made 11 Pro Bowls, including the one in his final season, and caught 1,152 passes for 12,448 yards, both Cowboys records. He ranks fourth in the N.F.L. in career catches behind Jerry Rice, Tony Gonzalez and Larry Fitzgerald. He was also known as a strong run blocker.Though he played 16 games in every season except his first, his statistics dipped in his final years. In his last season, he had 63 catches and 560 yards receiving, the lowest figures since his rookie season.Witten signed a four-year, $29.6 million contract extension with the Cowboys in 2017 but retired just one year later and joined a reimagined “Monday Night Football” booth on ESPN. He worked alongside Joe Tessitore, the play-by-play voice; Anthony McFarland, an analyst; and Lisa Salters, who reported from the sidelines.ESPN had hoped to replicate the magic happening at CBS. A year earlier, CBS had hired Witten’s quarterback with the Cowboys, Tony Romo, and made him the network’s lead football analyst. Romo was an instant hit and received near-universal praise for his ability to predict plays.But from the start, the Tessitore, McFarland and Witten booth struggled. Witten often stumbled over his lines — his most notable moment was when he said that the N.F.L. had gone “left wing” in its protection of quarterbacks — and sometimes spoke in platitudes. McFarland, instead of sitting in the broadcast booth, provided commentary from an odd cranelike contraption on the sideline that ESPN called the Booger Mobile.Witten’s performance was savaged by sports media critics, who wondered how long ESPN would keep the booth together. “‘Monday Night Football’ has a big problem: Jason Witten,” read one Boston Globe headline. Witten and Jay Rothman, the show’s producer, asked for patience, and Rothman insisted Witten’s job was safe.In a statement Thursday, ESPN thanked Witten for his contributions and said, “We understand Jason’s desire to return to the Dallas Cowboys.”ESPN said its plans for the 2019 “Monday Night Football” booth had not been determined.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonA dozen years ago, the University of Washington barred athletic coaches from having contact with anyone in the admissions department.With a move that now seems prescient, two new administrators supervising athletics sought to allay any concerns that coaches could put undue pressure on admissions personnel. The change also brought more oversight to athletics, in this case through a committee of senior faculty members, deans and other university representatives.The previous arrangement, said Philip Ballinger, an associate vice provost now overseeing admissions, “didn’t have sufficient transparency; it didn’t have enough eyes on it.”The leeway coaches get in recruiting has long been a point of discussion in higher education circles. But after federal investigators last week revealed a broad admissions cheating scandal, a number of colleges began asking hard questions about how they evaluate athletic applicants and oversee the chosen few whom coaches recommend for admission.In what prosecutors described as the biggest case of admissions fraud they had investigated, 50 people were accused in a scheme that involved paying bribes to coaches and to people who monitor admissions tests in order to fraudulently get the children of wealthy patrons into some of the nation’s most elite colleges.Some students were accepted as recruited athletes even though they did not play the sports described in their applications. They gained an advantage through the widespread practice of allocating a certain number of admissions spots to athletes who might not get in otherwise.This process has been followed for decades in the pursuit of competitive teams, which burnish a university’s reputation, inspire alumni loyalty and often help with fund-raising.Now, the fraud case has sent a thunderbolt through the higher education community.“Every college president in America called his athletic director the morning after that admissions fraud story broke and asked: How do we make sure this doesn’t happen at our school?” said Bill Martin, the athletic director at the University of Michigan from 2000 until his retirement in 2010. “And certain athletic directors were smart enough to call their presidents first to insist that they were going to start verifying the status of every admitted recruited athlete.”Indeed, at Yale University, where F.B.I. investigators say the longtime women’s soccer coach accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars to facilitate the admission of a recruit who did not actually play soccer, the university president, Peter Salovey, announced late last week that new oversight policies had already been put in place. The Yale athletic director will begin reviewing every proposed recruit’s credentials before admission, and recruited athletes who fail to make a team after they arrive will receive “close scrutiny,” a university statement said.A broad overhaul of athletic admissions systems in Division I, the highest level of N.C.A.A. competition and the level the colleges in the scheme compete in, has been overdue, according to several athletic administrators interviewed in recent days.Battles over blue-chip recruits in football and basketball already tend to be heavily scrutinized. In those upper echelon sports, if there is money changing hands, it is from coaches to recruits, not the other way around.But in the lower-profile sports like crew, volleyball, tennis and soccer — often called the Olympic sports — there has been more room for bribes and exploitation. And the most common route in such a fraud is to designate a phony athletic prospect as a “recruited walk-on.” In nearly every case of counterfeit athletic credentials cited in last week’s indictments, from Stanford to Texas to Yale, the prospective athlete appeared to be filling the nebulous role of recruited walk-on.Such applicants are not even assured a spot on the team. But they are often on a list of five to 20 athletes — it varies from sport to sport — that a coach is permitted to submit to the admissions department.The two daughters of the actress Lori Loughlin, who was charged in connection with the fraud case last week, were passed off as crew recruits despite never having competed in the sport, according to federal prosecutors.That choice of sport may not have been an accident. In a sport like women’s crew, where rosters can balloon to 125 athletes, many teams have scores of recruited walk-ons. (Such large rosters can help a college comply with federal equality laws, balancing out the number of male athletes in football.)“When the rosters are that big, like they are in women’s crew, I could see where it would be possible for a coach to slip in an unqualified person as a recruited walk-on,” said Martin, who added that Michigan annually audited team rosters.The recruitment of athletes in such sports may be an even bigger factor in the admissions process at colleges in the N.C.A.A.’s lowest tier, Division III, where athletic scholarships are forbidden.Division III is also the largest tier, with nearly 450 institutions, including many of the country’s most selective small liberal arts colleges, where acceptance rates can be as low as 15 percent. These colleges might field as many as 30 teams from enrollments as small as 2,000, with varsity athletes, many of them afforded an advantage in admissions, making up 30 percent to 45 percent of the student body.These small colleges, like the largest ones, also give preferential treatment to applicants who excel in music, the arts and a host of other skills. There are also allowances for students from the least-populated states.“Admissions is filling all the different buckets,” said Wendy Smith, the athletic director at Haverford College, a highly rated institution near Philadelphia. “And our athletes are right in there. We are not in any way gaming the system. They are absolutely on par academically.”The cost of fielding a successful sports team in the ultracompetitive college athletic landscape often leads to other troubling conflicts of interest.In the Ivy League, for example, most coaches are responsible for fund-raising that bridges the gap between support from the college and the true price tag of competing successfully. That can lead to uncomfortable decisions about composing a team, especially since athletes’ families often become the leading donors.“You have a family who will give you $25,000, but then you are not going to play their daughter?” said Paul Wardlaw, who was the women’s tennis coach at Brown University for 14 years.“The whole scandal is interesting, and it’s human nature to take the easy route,” he said, “but there are some systematic issues that are contributing to this.”At many elite institutions, the notion that recruited athletes have been granted an unfair advantage is palpable.Cameron Green, a tight end on the football team at Northwestern University, which accepts about 13 percent of applicants, conceded that several of his high school classmates who did not play sports had applied to Northwestern and been rejected.“It’s easier for athletes to get in, so I know that’s hard for regular students,” said Green, a senior who does not plan to play football in his final year of eligibility. “A lot of kids I knew were confused when I got in and they didn’t, but you know, at the end of the day, the school looks at your demographics on a piece of paper and decides to admit you before they even meet you.”The high percentage of recruited athletes at some colleges, particularly smaller ones, has other consequences, some of them at odds with institutional ambitions for a diverse student body.Because success in youth sports today often comes more easily to affluent families who spend copiously on private instruction, the rosters of college teams have become predominantly white — nearly 80 percent at some small schools.In the end, some in the higher education community believe that last week’s admissions fraud scandal, while an embarrassing lesson in what policy changes need to be made, is nevertheless creating a false impression of the state of admissions procedures at American colleges.“There is now this notion that admissions is a competitive cesspool, and it’s not,” said Michael Reilly, the executive director of the American Association of College Registrars and Admissions Officers. “In fact,” Reilly added, “most campuses nationwide fail to meet their enrollment goals. But then we have this segment that’s highly competitive and has created a completely different dynamic. If I were on those campuses, I’d be sitting down and saying, ‘Let’s rethink how we’re doing this.’”Joe Drape, Ellen Almer Durston and Alain Delaquérière contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sopan DebThe soul singer Gladys Knight, who will be singing the national anthem at this year’s Super Bowl in Atlanta, seemed to criticize Colin Kaepernick in a statement published by Variety on Friday.Kaepernick is the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback whose refusal to stand during “The Star-Spangled Banner” — and decision to kneel instead — to protest police brutality has made him a divisive figure nationwide, earning him praise from civil rights groups, but scorn from many conservatives, including President Trump.“I understand that Mr. Kaepernick is protesting two things, and they are police violence and injustice,” Knight wrote to Variety. “It is unfortunate that our national anthem has been dragged into this debate when the distinctive senses of the national anthem and fighting for justice should each stand alone.”The statement continued: “I am here today and on Sunday, Feb. 3, to give the anthem back its voice, to stand for that historic choice of words, the way it unites us when we hear it and to free it from the same prejudices and struggles I have fought long and hard for all my life.”This is the latest twist at the intersection of politics, sports and music that has surrounded this year’s Super Bowl. Kaepernick is still in the middle of an ongoing arbitration case regarding a grievance he filed against the N.F.L. He has accused the league’s owners of colluding to keep him out of the league after not being signed last season.His protests during the anthems became a cultural flash point, even though he wasn’t in the league. Other N.F.L. players began kneeling to support Kaepernick, as did celebrities off the field. Last fall, Nike made Kaepernick the face of a prominent advertising campaign.This year’s Super Bowl became particularly fraught because of the halftime show. Some high-profile artists, including the rapper Cardi B, said they would not be willing to perform, in a show of solidarity with Kaepernick. Last year, Jay-Z rapped in one of his songs: “I said no to the Super Bowl, you need me, I don’t need you.”Earlier this week, the N.F.L. announced the halftime acts would be Maroon 5 and the rappers Travis Scott and Big Boi. Scott’s decision to participate, in particular, received backlash, including from prominent African-Americans like Al Sharpton. Variety reported that Kaepernick and Scott spoke before the announcement and described the conversation as “cordial and respectful.” But on Wednesday, several posts critical of Scott appeared on Kaepernick’s Twitter account.Perhaps anticipating the criticism, Scott announced on Sunday, in conjunction with the halftime billing, that he and the league were teaming up on a $500,000 donation to Dream Corps, a social justice group.Representatives for Kaepernick and Knight declined to comment.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe former editor of Vanity Fair is going digital. By Alex WilliamsGraydon Carter, the former editor of Vanity Fair, is starting Air Mail, an all-digital international news platform intended for worldly cosmopolitans, with Alessandra Stanley, who was a longtime critic and reporter for The New York Times.Beginning this summer, Air Mail will be packaged as a weekly newsletter, featuring magazine-length original articles sent to subscribers on Saturday at 6 a.m. Stories and original podcasts will also be available on a website: AirMail.news.According to Mr. Carter, the idea is to keep well-heeled globalists up to speed on the latest fads, fashions, arts, riots, scandals, and political upheavals in Europe and Asia. Think of it a bit like The Economist with attitude, or maybe “the weekend edition of a nonexistent international daily,” he said, slouching in an office chair in his garden-level West Village office on a recent, chilly Monday. He was wearing gray flannel trousers, a blue fleece vest and his trademark curvilinear hairstyle.Mr. Carter also suggested the new venture might be like the weekend edition of the Financial Times, which he loves, but “is hard to get — you’ve got to be in the metropolitan city, it’s $7, or at least it is where I spend the weekends in the country, you’ve got to get out of your pajamas to get it.”He and Ms. Stanley plan to start out with a small team of editors, many of them young, hoping to reach members of the Snapchat generation as well as people old enough to share Mr. Carter’s romantic associations with those old-school Air Mail envelopes with the red and blue borders, which he still uses for bookmarks. They want the readership of creative professionals who travel business class to know the latest vegan currywurst hot spots in Berlin, and crave more gravitas from foreign dispatches than, say, is in Monocle’s earnest short profiles on sustainability-minded Danish design executives.“The marketing executive in Soho House with the shaved head — that’s the Monocle reader,” said Mr. Carter, 69. “I don’t know what ours is yet, but I just have a rough idea. They’ll be a sophisticated person. They’re not backpackers, and they’re not in Las Vegas, drinking Champagne and sitting around in their heart-shaped bathtub.”Air Mail will steer clear of Washington politics. The newsletter, Mr. Carter said, is “designed to live in a Trump-free world” (he has been an antagonist of the president since the 1980s, when Spy magazine, which Mr. Carter co-founded, branded Mr. Trump a “short-fingered vulgarian”).In his office at Vanity Fair, Mr. Carter lined one wall with framed copies of the 49 tweets that Mr. Trump had directed at him. (“I always used to say, ‘This is the only wall he’s built,’” Mr. Carter said.)With yellow-vest protests roiling France, Italian populists threatening an “Italexit” from the European Union, and a Chinese economic slowdown threatening the world economy, he and Ms. Stanley, 63, believe that American readers that are more interested than ever in matters abroad. “Trump has gone so inward, so nationalistic, that readers are rebelling by going more global,” she said by telephone.Brexit is an obvious example. “To most Americans, Brexit is both an important but confusing story, that unfolds in a different direction every single week,” Mr. Carter said. That is why the duo has commissioned Francis Wheen, from Private Eye, the satirical British news publication, to write a humorous column called This Week in Brexit.But Air Mail does not seek to compete with, say, Foreign Affairs, the international-relations journal published by the Council on Foreign Relations. “This is not homework,” Ms. Stanley said.Rather, it should feel like “a calm read for a weekend, where you may stay in bed for two hours,” reading about food, film and football, which is “bigger than Norad and NATO and the United Nations,” Mr. Carter said.One might fairly expect any publication of his to contain at least a smattering of aristocrats-behaving-badly stories, like the ones Mr. Carter used to find in foreign newspapers to pursue for Vanity Fair. But “there’s not much in the way of high-end scandal in America right now,” he said. “We’re going through a drought of rich people knifing each other, or shooting each other, or cheating each other.”What about the British royal family? “Unless Meghan Markle starts strangling Prince Philip or something,” he said, “I have no interest in them.”And while Air Mail will sample articles culled from European and Asian publications, it will not be a globetrotter's Axios, boiling down the latest headlines into easy-to-digest morsels.“These are fully formed narratives,” Mr. Carter said. “Vanity Fair was in the excellence business, and I want to stay in the excellence business. We’re not after clickbait.”Media models have undergone scrutiny lately after layoffs at Buzzfeed and HuffPost. The subscription rate is still under discussion, but will be reasonable, and will, in theory, help Air Mail avoid the revenue shortfalls of media companies that depend solely upon advertising. “You know, if Howard Schultz gave away coffee for free, Starbucks would be the most popular food organization on Earth — for about two weeks,” Mr. Carter said.Each issue is intended to have a single sponsor, ideally a luxury advertiser drawn to an upscale readership. Air Mail has also secured backing from TPG Growth, the private equity powerhouse that has a stake in Creative Artists Agency and Vice; James Coulter, a billionaire investor who is one of the firm’s two chief executives, is a friend of Mr. Carter’s.And if none of those elites end up subscribing to Air Mail, he does not seem like he will be crushed. He recently spent a year in Provence (where he considered buying an English-language bookshop and settling full-time with his wife Anna), completed one chapter of a still-untitled memoir, and is resolute about being done with office towers.“I never want to have a swipe card again,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated a source of funding for Airmail, the weekly newsletter. It is TPG Growth, a private equity firm of which James Coulter is a chief executive, not James Coulter himself.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundBy Adriana BalsamoEddie Rodriguez approached his financial counselor, beaming in his new navy suit.“It’s a small office,” said Mr. Rodriguez, 42, “but magic comes out of there.”Early last year, Mr. Rodriguez could hardly afford to pay his basic living expenses, let alone buy new clothes. After defaulting another time on his student loans, his Social Security disability benefits were again garnished, leaving him with little. Knowing he needed help, he sought assistance in June from the Financial Coaching Corps, part of the Community Service Society.Mr. Rodriguez is not alone in his struggle with student debt: Federal statistics show that nearly a third of the people who take out student loans have serious trouble repaying them.“A lot of my clients never received good information at any sort of point along the student loan journey,” said Mr. Rodriguez’s financial counselor, Courtney Davis, the community development specialist at Financial Coaching Corps. She helped him rehabilitate his defaulted loans.As a teenager on Long Island, Mr. Rodriguez did not focus on education, he recalled in an interview last month. His parents worked long hours at multiple jobs, including hotel, restaurant and factory work. “They tried their best with what they had,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “I know that now.”As a boy, he dreamed of playing professional football and idolized the quarterback Dan Marino. But Mr. Rodriguez was hit by a truck in junior high school, leaving him with a leg injury, and he hung up his jersey.To numb the pain of his injury and the loss of his athletic dreams, he began using drugs and alcohol. His struggle with addiction continued after he became a father at 18.“It was stressful,” he said. “I didn’t know how to be a parent. I wasn’t ready.”He and his daughter’s mother stayed together for several years, and Mr. Rodriguez tried to support his new family.“I took any job I could get: food industry, retail, any labor job,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “Because of my lack of education, it was tough.”He kept working low-wage jobs after his relationship unraveled, and he enrolled at Sullivan County Community College in 2005 to set an example for his daughter, as well as his nieces and nephews. He also began taking out loans.The effort fizzled, and he tried again in 2011, this time at Suffolk County Community College, pursuing a degree in human services and writing for the college paper’s sports section. He took on more loans and continued to work part-time.But he was unable to finish college as he wrestled with addiction and economic stress brought on a major depressive episode. He found himself with more than $30,000 in student debt and relied on Social Security disability payments related to his mental health. On and off over the following years, he would be found in default and unable to receive his full disability benefits.Last year brought a shift. Mr. Rodriguez was proud when his daughter graduated from college, which he called “one of the greatest moments” of his life, and she found a job in the public health field.He committed to receiving help from the Maryhaven Center of Hope rehabilitation center on Long Island, and he has been sober since March, after 15 years of stops and starts.“Keep God first, be honest with myself and never give up — those are the three principles I live by today,” he said. “My first goal always is staying clean. No. 1, nothing will be possible if you don’t stay clean.”Mr. Rodriguez has found a job that is meaningful to him: helping other men with addiction as a wellness coach at the nonprofit organization Reality House.“I started to believe in myself that there’s a better way,” Mr. Rodriguez said.While looking into potential resources to help improve his financial situation, he found support from Ms. Davis at Financial Coaching Corps.“Eddie was really motivated to tackle this issue,” she said. Part of her salary is paid for with support from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, of which Community Service Society is a beneficiary.Mr. Rodriguez is seven months into a 10-month payment plan that, once completed, will bring his loan out of default, improving his credit rating and restoring his eligibility to apply for federal financial aid.Mr. Rodriguez’s next goal is to finish his degree in human services; he hopes to start school again part-time by the end of 2019. This time, he’ll do it with better financial advice.“There are people out there that are willing to take their time to sit with you,” Mr. Rodriguez said.Donations to the Neediest Cases may be made online, or with a check or over the phone.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Neil MacFarquharMOSCOW — There was crowing in Russia on Monday that the special counsel’s investigation did not find coordination between Moscow and the Trump campaign in 2016, but optimism about improved relations was tempered by the report’s extensive focus on Russian meddling in the presidential election.Official reaction to a summary of Robert S. Mueller III’s report that was released on Sunday proved decidedly muted.Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin, told reporters that the only news in the summary was the “recognition that there wasn’t any collusion,” and he repeated his denial that Russia had interfered in the American election. Mr. Putin has maintained a steady interest in good relations with the United States, he said, while American actions toward Russia have been erratic, so the ball is in Washington’s court.From others in the Kremlin elite, however, the main refrain was “we told you so,” along with some hope that President Trump would now be free to pursue his campaign goal of improving relations with Russia.“Mueller’s long-awaited report proved what was known in Russia from the very beginning,” Konstantin Kosachev, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the upper house of the Russian Parliament, wrote on Facebook. “There was no collusion between Trump and any of his team with Russia.”Rossiya 24, the main state television news channel, was more mocking, saying it took tens of millions of dollars for “the mountain to bring forth a mouse.”The full report has not been released, and an extended battle is expected in Washington over its fate. But the four-page summary issued by Attorney General William P. Barr noted twice that the investigation had not established that the Kremlin and the Trump campaign had worked together in the Russian meddling.“The Special Counsel did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts, despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr’s summary said.Mr. Kosachev said he regretted the two lost years during which Russian-American relations were hampered by sanctions and continued accusations of wrongdoing. Various officials and analysts said they hoped that there would be new initiatives soon toward Russia from the Trump administration, but there were varying degrees of optimism about when this might happen and how substantial they might be.“To some extent, the leader of the United States now has greater room to maneuver, which, in principle, he can use,” Mr. Kosachev wrote. Still, he noted, Congress retains significant control over lifting sanctions, and hawks like John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, will not necessarily endorse improving ties. “In any case, there is a chance to reset to zero a lot in our relations,” Mr. Kosachev said, “but will Trump take that risk — for now it’s a question.”There are, of course, serious issues dividing Moscow and the West that are unrelated to the 2016 election or the Mueller investigation: Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, its alliance with Iran and support for President Bashar al-Assad in Syria’s civil war, its backing of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela and the poisoning of a retired Russian spy and his daughter with a nerve agent in Britain.“I don’t think this will change much,” said Aleksei V. Makarkin, an analyst with the Center for Political Technologies, a Moscow think tank. The myriad areas of conflict “do not allow us to consider these relations with optimism,” he said.Others noted that a significant portion of the Mueller report summary addressed Russian efforts to sway the 2016 presidential election and damage Mr. Trump’s opponent, Hillary Clinton.One element of that effort was the work of the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency to sow social discord in the United States through a disinformation campaign. Another involved computer hacking, especially of the Clinton campaign, to obtain information that could influence the election.The investigation resulted in indictments against 26 Russians, many of them government intelligence officers, and three Russian companies, although there is no real expectation that they will ever stand trial.Aleksandr Morozov, a frequent Kremlin critic, noted that the report confirmed Russian interference in the election. The Kremlin can hope either to reset relations, to wait until the damage fades or to continue with business as usual, said Mr. Morozov, a researcher at the Boris Nemtsov Academic Center for the Study of Russia branch in Prague.Moscow will probably choose to continue with its campaign of disinformation and disruption against American democracy, he said in an interview. “It is difficult to imagine that relations can get better now,” he said. “So that means that the Kremlin will try to continue with the hybrid war and also attempt to push this event out of the Russian-American agenda with the help of some new ones.”Analysts of all stripes said that without the cloud of the Mueller investigation over him, Mr. Trump might return to his idea of a grand bargain with Mr. Putin, something he had appeared to put on the back burner as the accusations swirled.“Now he can say this is my political plan and not the result of any wrongdoing,” said Ivan I. Kurilla, a historian at the European University at St. Petersburg who specializes in Russian-American relations.Whether that will be enough to clear a path for Mr. Trump is another matter. The Kremlin is cautious about his mercurial moods, and Democrats will continue to challenge the president over Russian actions, particularly the election meddling described by Mr. Mueller.“He is not seen as a reliable partner for Russia,” said Dmitri Trenin, the head of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Russia will continue to be what it has been for the last two years in the United States, a political football kicked around by all sides.”Mr. Kurilla said there was a panoply of issues on which talks could at least get started, ranging from smaller disputes like the recent mutual expulsion of diplomats and closing of consulates to larger issues like the war in Ukraine, arms control or the situation in Venezuela.Compared with the summit meetings that Mr. Trump has held with the leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un, Mr. Putin may seem a far more important, more tempting target, he said.“I always see Trump’s meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea as a rehearsal of what he was going to do with Putin,” Mr. Kurilla said. “A meeting of two strong men, and some big deal to make the world less dangerous. He will probably return to the idea of some bargain, some grand deal between Russia and the United States.”Still, any change will take time.“I don’t expect Trump to lift the sanctions and he and Putin to embrace each other tomorrow,” Mr. Kurilla said.Ivan Nechepurenko and Andrew Kramer contributed reporting.Follow Neil MacFarquhar on Twitter: @NeilMacFarquhar.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re looking ahead to President Trump’s speech from the Oval Office tonight. We’re also covering the growing impact of the government shutdown on regular Americans, and Clemson’s lopsided win in college football’s championship game.The president plans to speak from the Oval Office at 9 p.m. Eastern to discuss what he calls a crisis at the border with Mexico, and the need to address it before a partial government shutdown can end. Mr. Trump’s demand of $5.7 billion for a border wall is at the heart of a budget impasse that has led to the second-longest shutdown in U.S. history.Today, Democrats in the House plan to start the process of passing individual appropriations bills to reopen the government, beginning with legislation that would fund the Treasury Department, including the I.R.S.Notable: In making his case for a wall, Mr. Trump has said his predecessors in the Oval Office had admitted to him that they should have built the barriers themselves. But all of the living former presidents say that’s not true. Explainer: The White House has raised the idea of invoking emergency powers to build the wall without lawmakers’ approval. We examined how that might work.The Daily: In today’s episode, a Times reporter who covers immigration discusses the situation at the southwestern border.Many of the 800,000 federal workers who have been furloughed or who are working without pay won’t get paychecks this week, as the effects of the shutdown ripple across the economy.To soften the blow, the Trump administration directed the Internal Revenue Service on Monday to issue tax refunds during the shutdown, reversing previous policy.Impact: Our correspondent in Florida visited Marianna, a deeply conservative town in the Panhandle. Federal prison workers there were already struggling after Hurricane Michael struck in October. “It’s just too much,” one prison guard said of the shutdown. The details: Here’s what is and isn’t affected by the shutdown.President Trump’s national security adviser has largely eliminated the internal policy debates that could have fleshed out Mr. Trump’s decision to abruptly withdraw U.S. troops from Syria.So, after protests from Congress and concern from allies, it was up to Mr. Bolton to talk his boss into slowing down the pullout, senior administration officials said.Catch up: Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said over the weekend: “The president is slowing down and is re-evaluating his policies in light of those three objectives: Don’t let Iran get the oil fields, don’t let the Turks slaughter the Kurds, and don’t let ISIS come back.”From Opinion: President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey praised Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw, saying his country could shoulder the “heavy burden” of fighting the Islamic State.Since President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines began an antidrug campaign in 2016, the country’s prison system has become one of the most overcrowded in the world.The Times visited the Manila City Jail, where the guards are so outnumbered that gangs keep the peace.Uptick in emissions: U.S. carbon emissions rose 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years, according to a preliminary estimate published today. The rise came despite a near-record number of coal plants in the U.S. being retired last year. North Korean leader in China: Kim Jong-un arrived in Beijing today for a four-day visit. The trip comes as negotiations are underway for a second summit meeting between Mr. Kim and President Trump. World Bank resignation: The organization’s president, Jim Yong Kim, is leaving in February, nearly three years before the end of his term. His departure could set up a fight between the Trump administration and other governments over a replacement.California’s new governor: Gavin Newsom was sworn in on Monday, pledging to focus on huge economic disparities in the state.Ginsburg misses arguments: Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who underwent cancer surgery last month, was missing from the bench on Monday for the first arguments since the Supreme Court returned from a four-week break.The Trump administration: Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, has been exploring the possibility of becoming president of the University of South Carolina.Carlos Ghosn’s defense: In his first public appearance since his arrest nearly two months ago, the former Nissan chief accused of financial misconduct said today that he was innocent.Snapshot: Above, Sean Pollard, an offensive lineman for Clemson, after the Tigers crushed Alabama, 44-16, to win the College Football Playoff championship game on Monday. It’s Clemson’s second national title in three years.Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert was among the hosts who returned on Monday from a holiday break: “I am excited to announce that after a 17-day shutdown, I am reopening ‘The Late Show.’ I held my ground, because I kept my promise and built a wall of mashed potatoes, around my midsection, over the Christmas holidays.”What we’re listening to: This “In Our Time” podcast from the BBC. Lauretta Charlton, our Race/Related editor, notes that the program has been on the air for two decades. “Lord Melvyn Bragg and his guests do a brilliant job of helping make sense of the world,” she writes. “I highly recommend this episode on the Long March, Mao Zedong and the Red Army. The bonus material at the end is especially compelling, on the price women in the revolution paid for liberation.”Cook: This recipe for salmon turns flat-leaf parsley into a sharp, verdant sauce. (The Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Read: For the 20th anniversary this week of the premiere of “The Sopranos,” its creator, David Chase, spoke about the show’s legacy and its endlessly dissected ending.Watch: “Surviving R. Kelly” is a six-part documentary about the R&B singer, who has faced accusations of child and sexual abuse for decades. Our reviewer says the series “underscores the theme of accountability — not just of Kelly or his many personal enablers, but of us all.”Quiz: Answer 25 questions in our feature, created in 2013, to see your personal dialect map. Smarter Living: Drawing can have a big impact on what you remember. The three-act process of picturing something in your mind, putting pen to paper, and looking at what you drew outperforms other memorization tricks.Handily, we have tips to find a great fountain pen. We also look at the devices that are likely to dominate (or invade) your life this year.One used fantasy techniques to expose the “brutality inherent in society.” Another looked at the “secret life” of Mecca, depicting the Islamic holy city in Saudi Arabia as rived with crime. Yet another narrated the travels of a medieval Sufi mystic.All were winners of the International Prize for Arabic Fiction. The “longlist” of contenders for the 2019 prize was announced this week.Arabic is an ancient language that has a rich tradition of oral storytelling and poetry, but the adoption of the novel is relatively recent. Few Arabic novels are translated, and fewer still are distributed in the West.The prize is funded by the Department of Culture and Tourism of Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates. Some call it the “Arabic Booker” because the Booker Prize Foundation in Britain supports the award. (The administrators discourage the nickname.)The author of the winning novel, to be announced in April, will receive $60,000, as well as funding for having the work translated.Here are some previous winners available in English.That’s it for this briefing. Our Travel section will be publishing its annual 52 Places to Go list tomorrow. As a preview, the section’s editor explains how the list is put together.See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, for compiling our cultural recommendations, and to James K. Williamson for curating Smarter Living. Ben Hubbard, our Beirut bureau chief,  wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about President Trump and the situation at the southwestern border.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Shade of light purple (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times translated the detailed investigation about the death of a Palestinian medic into Arabic. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Giants General Manager Dave Gettleman gave a rousing endorsement of Coach Pat Shurmur, stood behind his decision to draft running back Saquon Barkley and laughed off suggestions that the team might trade receiver Odell Beckham Jr.But Gettleman, in his first news conference with reporters since the summer, remained surprisingly noncommittal on Wednesday about quarterback Eli Manning’s future with the Giants, leaving the door open for the organization to potentially move on from its two-time Super Bowl most valuable player this off-season.“We will do what’s in the best interest of the New York Giants,” Gettleman said, before adding: “What we’re trying to do here is build sustained success. That takes some brutal honesty, and it takes some tough decisions.”Gettleman said he and Manning had met for an “extensive” conversation on Monday that he deemed to be “very honest and upfront.” Notably, it was Manning who initiated the discussion.“Eli came in and wanted to talk,” Gettleman said. “It wasn’t like he was called to the principal’s office; he came to see me.”Manning, who turns 38 on Thursday and is under contract through the 2019 season, started all 16 games for the Giants this season and threw for 4,299 yards with 21 touchdowns and 11 interceptions. He completed 66 percent of his passes, a career high, and finished with a 92.4 quarterback rating, his highest since 2015.But the Giants started with a 1-7 record this season before finishing 5-11, and they have an 8-23 record over the past two years with Manning as the starter. There are questions about his pocket presence, decision-making and arm strength — including from Beckham, who criticized Manning in an interview with ESPN in October.Gettleman pointed to the offense’s productivity in December, when the Giants scored 30, 40, 27 and 35 points (they also were shut out by the Tennessee Titans on Dec. 16).“He still can make N.F.L. throws,” Gettleman said of Manning. “He’s still got it.”Shurmur shares that opinion, having defended Manning throughout the season — and especially in recent weeks regarding the quarterback’s ability to return as the Giants’ starter in 2019. On Monday, he said Manning should be evaluated based on his performance in the second half of the season.“I think he was better able to showcase what he could do once we solidified the offensive line,” Shurmur said. “I think that’s a fair assessment.”As for how he planned to assess Manning’s performance amid the swings in fortune throughout the season, Gettleman was less effusive. He said he would watch film “until my eyes bleed.”Manning has a full no-trade clause, and cutting him would incur a sizable hit to the Giants’ salary cap. Nevertheless, Gettleman said, “everything is on the table for us.”Gettleman executed an extensive roster overhaul this season, his first as the team’s general manager. But the Giants still finished last in the N.F.C. East, leaving them with the No. 6 overall pick in the coming draft.This year’s class is not expected to contain the same caliber of quarterback prospects as last year, when the quarterbacks Baker Mayfield, Sam Darnold, Josh Rosen and Josh Allen all went in the first 10 slots of the draft. Still, Gettleman defended his decision to draft Barkley, a running back, with the second overall pick in 2018. Barkley ran for 1,307 yards, a Giants rookie record, and added 721 yards receiving.“If I was in that situation 100 times, I’d draft him 100 times,” Gettleman said of Barkley.His assessment of the 2019 draft options remained the same as a year ago, he said, but he did not rule out selecting a quarterback. The Giants did select a quarterback in the fourth round last summer, Kyle Lauletta, who struggled in his lone appearance of the season, going 0 for 5 with one interception during the second half against Washington on Dec. 9.“You’re going to take the best player available,” Gettleman said. “You start reaching, you’re going to get in trouble.”The Giants played the final four games of the season without Beckham, who was sidelined with a quadriceps injury. Even though the Giants’ offense produced without Beckham, Gettleman quickly refuted any notion that the team might look to trade the star receiver, who signed a five-year, $90 million contract extension in August.“We didn’t sign him to trade him,” Gettleman said.Gettleman praised Shurmur’s steadiness after the team’s abysmal start, and he was pleased with the effort the team gave down the stretch, especially after being eliminated from playoff contention.“We’re not happy with 5-11, nobody is,” Gettleman said. “But I feel good about where we’re headed.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe CoscarelliATLANTA — “Welcome to Atlanta, out-of-towners!” the hip-hop carnival barker Lil Jon screamed to a full arena on Thursday night, as he baptized the Super Bowl weekend crowd with a torrent of regional hits.It was the halftime show that never could be — a charmingly slapdash, nearly five-hour profane parade of local heroes and of-the-moment aspirants that represented a specific place and point of view too hot for an audience north of 100 million.Though the annual mid-game concert, which lasts fewer than 15 minutes, is rarely tied to the Super Bowl’s location, this year’s choice of a headliner — the anodyne pop band Maroon 5 — has proved controversial on two fronts: First, for its lack of fealty to the host city’s constantly regenerating pool of black musical talent, and also because of reports that more au courant stars turned down the N.F.L. in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick. (The late addition of the rappers Travis Scott and Big Boi, of the Atlanta duo Outkast, did little to quell the consternation and head-scratching given the three acts’ obvious incongruity.)[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]Still, Atlanta has shown itself to be more than willing to make the most of the festivities. On Thursday, at the first night of the Super Bowl Music Fest at the State Farm Arena downtown, the city’s hip-hop royalty came together for a reverse-chronological survey of Atlanta music this century, from Lil Baby, 21 Savage and Migos to Ludacris, Jeezy and T.I. (The Music Fest concerts were scheduled to continue with more Super Bowl-esque lineups on Friday, with Post Malone and Aerosmith, and Saturday, featuring Bruno Mars and Cardi B.)Though the event was temporally and nominally linked to the N.F.L. — and came with a bevy of corporate sponsorships — football felt like an afterthought, and the crowd booed when periodic commercials for the league interrupted the music.Instead, the concert felt like the celebration of Atlanta that was unlikely to happen on Sunday. And it was part of a constellation of local events, many overseen by the Atlanta Super Bowl LIII Host Committee, that sought to highlight the city’s rich cultural past and present, including six nights of free, genre-spanning concerts at Centennial Olympic Park. (There were no shortage of unofficial parties, after-parties and after-after parties, as well, with many local artists packing multiple appearances into each night.)“I’m not going to say anything bad about Maroon 5 — I love Maroon 5,” said Maya Neguse, a 20-year-old student, as the concert began. “It’s just that they’re not lit enough for the Super Bowl.”Indeed, the arena was ready to move, responding with special enthusiasm to dance crazes that originated locally (“Swag Surfin,” “Crank That (Soulja Boy),” “Laffy Taffy”) and regional references. “If you went to Freaknik make some noise,” said Big Tigger, the night’s occasional M.C., at one point, referring to the storied black college spring break gathering. “If your mama went to Freaknik make some noise,” he added to much louder cheers, revealing the plethora of what he called “’90s babies” in the audience.The night’s performances also served as a genealogical chart for the local scene. Shorter sets from the current princes of Atlanta, like 21 Savage, Lil Yachty and Lil Baby, gave way to a fuller performance by their relative elders in Migos, who welcomed to the stage everyone’s godfather, Gucci Mane. (The most notable absences of the night were from the in-between micro-generation: Future and Young Thug.)Then came the foundational contingent — the artists who might actually be able to hold down a Super Bowl stage if Southern hip-hop could crystallize into classic rap, à la classic rock. Lil Jon, who went from crunk pioneer to EDM conqueror and is now 48, played both rapper and D.J., delivering his well-worn chants — “Get Low,” “Neva Eva (Get On My Level)” — and those of his contemporaries in Crime Mob, Ying Yang Twins and YoungBloodZ.Ludacris, the headliner, also stuck to greatest hits and demonstrations of local unity, beginning with the anthemic “Welcome to Atlanta” and a brief cameo by Jermaine Dupri. After running through the most recognizable parts of his catalog with a full band — the first of the night — Ludacris welcomed the concert’s only female performer, Ciara, who did her best to supply feminine energy with some two dozen backup dancers.From there, as the clock passed 1 a.m., Ludacris was joined by Jeezy (formerly Young Jeezy) and, eventually, T.I., for a brief foray into their proto-trap music. The three men, seemingly mellowed by age and success, stood shoulder to shoulder performing the 2005 song “Bang,” which warns outsiders to mind local Atlanta customs.“When you come this city, just know,” T.I. said as the track ended. “It’s us.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Kevin DraperATLANTA — The executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association, DeMaurice Smith, said Thursday that the union would push for more generous benefits for all retired players in the coming negotiations over the collective bargaining agreement, which expires after the 2020 season.The union has been criticized for not doing enough to improve the pensions and health insurance for older retired players. Eric Dickerson and a group of other former stars sent a letter to Smith, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell, and David Baker, the president of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, saying they would not attend the annual induction ceremony until all members of the Hall of Fame receive health insurance and a salary.In September, another group of prominent former players formed a nonprofit group called Fairness for Athletes in Retirement, or FAIR, that has a single goal: to gain pensions equivalent to those of players who retired after 1993. Before 1993, pension contributions were far less than for players who retired after that year.Smith said that helping retired players had always been a priority, noting that in 2011, the league and the union established the Legacy Fund, which provided $620 million to improve the pensions of players who retired before 1993.“We have always reached back and improved pensions,” he said. “I think it’s smart that former players understand that we can accomplish more in improving benefits. This is a union that is never going to select a certain group of players over another group of players.”Dewey McClain, a former player and an executive committee member at the Players Association, added, “There are roughly 25,000 former players, and we need to take care of all of them.”Improving retiree benefits will be one of many issues facing the union as it braces for negotiations to renew its labor deal. During the last negotiation, in 2011, the owners locked out the players, and the work stoppage lasted about four months.The union has been diverting royalties from its deal with Electronic Arts, the maker of the “Madden NFL” series of video games, into a fund to be used in case of another lockout. Smith declined to say whether the union would sue the league if it diverted money from its media contracts into its own fund, a step the union took in 2011. But he did say negotiations were not a pretty process.“It is one of the messiest, nastiest things you could ever do,” he said.The union wants to increase the share of players contracts that are guaranteed, but Smith said that was not necessarily something that could be achieved through the coming negotiations. Rather, it could be gained more quickly by players demanding it in contract negotiations.The union’s executive members were encouraged that Kirk Cousins, a quarterback on the Minnesota Vikings, was able to sign a fully guaranteed, three-year $84 million contract last off-season.“Would we love guaranteed contracts? Yes,” said Mark Herzlich, a member of the executive committee. “Is it something we will ask for? Yes. Is it the sole thing we will ask for? No.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — Hours before the sport’s biggest game, President Trump joined the growing ranks of parents anxious over tackle football, saying in an interview he “would have a hard time” letting his 12-year-old son play.“I mean, it’s a dangerous sport and I think it’s, I, it’s really tough” if his son wanted to take up the game, Mr. Trump said in an interview with CBS ahead of its Sunday evening broadcast of the Super Bowl.The president’s concerns are at odds with his previous criticism that the N.F.L. has been making the game too soft to avoid concussions and other injuries, and suggest that he is struggling with many of the same questions that parents across the country are asking about the safety of youth tackle football.Mr. Trump said he would ultimately let his youngest son, Barron, who plays soccer, decide if he wanted to play tackle football and would not steer him away from the sport.[Super Bowl 2019: Game time, live updates and scores.]But the president said he had seen reports about the dangers of playing tackle football, and heard that some N.F.L. players were not letting their sons play tackle football.His comments added another wrinkle to his ambivalent relationship with the game he often celebrates, but also laments. His doubts about the safety of the game come five years after President Barack Obama said that if he had a son, he would not let him play professional football.Some studies have suggested that playing tackle football before age 12 puts athletes at a higher risk of developing cognitive problems later in life, but the issue has not been widely studied. In general, there has been growing awareness of C.T.E., a degenerative brain disease many former players have developed from repeated hits to the head.As a result of such concerns, participation in flag football has exploded.Yet while Mr. Obama held a forum at the White House on the dangers of concussions, Mr. Trump has repeatedly said the N.F.L. is being overprotective.In September 2017, for instance, Mr. Trump complained that the N.F.L. was ruining the game because the referees were trying to control unnecessarily rough tackles.“Today if you hit too hard — 15 yards! Throw him out of the game!” he said, adding: “They’re ruining the game! They’re ruining the game. That’s what they want to do. They want to hit. They want to hit! It is hurting the game.”At a campaign rally in 2016, Mr. Trump referred to a woman in the audience who fainted, but returned to the crowd.“The woman was out cold and now she’s coming back,” he said. “See? We don’t go by these new, and very much softer, N.F.L. rules. Concussion. Oh, oh! Got a little ding on the head. No, no, you can’t play for the rest of the season. Our people are tough.”Trump also called the N.F.L. “soft” for penalizing helmet-to-helmet hits.In the CBS interview, however, he sounded more cautionary notes.“I hate to say it, because I love to watch football,” Mr. Trump said. “I think the N.F.L. is a great product, but I really think that as far as my son — well, I’ve heard N.F.L. players saying they wouldn’t let their sons play football. So, it’s not totally unique, but I, I would have a hard time with it.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperATLANTA — Maroon 5, the headliner for the Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday, has already managed to do something its predecessors did not: skipping out on the traditional news conference to promote the show.The N.F.L. said the performers — along with Travis Scott and Big Boi — were too busy preparing to attend the event, which had been scheduled for Thursday but was canceled Tuesday evening.“Maroon 5 has been working hard on a Pepsi Super Bowl LIII Halftime Show that will meet and exceed the standards of this event,” the N.F.L. said in a news release announcing the cancellation. “As it is about music, the artists will let their show do the talking.”pic.twitter.com/UCgQ53ssANThe questioning is not usually a grilling. Last year, Justin Timberlake was asked whether Tom Brady was a rival in Timberlake’s bromance with Jimmy Fallon. Two years before, Coldplay’s Chris Martin was asked if his children, Apple and Moses, understood how big his performance at the Super Bowl would be.Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Bruno Mars, Beyoncé, Madonna, The Black Eyed Peas and The Who all took their turns on the podium in recent years.Prince, the 2007 performer, was expected to avoid interviews, but he showed up for the news conference — then turned it into a mini-concert, without taking questions.Yet this year’s artists almost certainly would face questions about Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who, by kneeling during the national anthem, started a protest movement against racial injustice and police brutality in 2016. He has not been on an N.F.L. team since that season.According to news reports, some chart-topping performers turned down invitations to perform at the Super Bowl, out of support for Kaepernick. Scott said he had talked by phone with Kaepernick before it was announced that he would be performing, according to Variety, which cited a source close to Scott as saying the two had come to a “mutual respect and understanding.” That account was later disputed on Twitter by Nessa Diab, a radio host who is also Kaepernick’s girlfriend.PJ Morton, Maroon 5’s keyboardist, told People that he believed the group could both oppose police brutality and perform at the Super Bowl.“We can support being against police brutality against black and brown people and be in support of being able to peacefully protest and still do our jobs,” he said. “We just want to have a good time and entertain people while understanding the important issues that are at hand.”The halftime show isn’t the only Super Bowl performance for which Kaepernick has become a flash point. Gladys Knight, who will perform the national anthem before the game, seemed to criticize Kaepernick’s method of activism this month.The N.F.L. did not respond to a request for comment on the cancellation. A representative for Adam Levine, Maroon 5’s frontman, did not return a phone call requesting comment.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com. Follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonATLANTA — In 2000, Antowain Smith, a running back who had been the Buffalo Bills’ first-round draft pick three years earlier, was unceremoniously cut by the team. Smith had been buried on the Bills’ bench.The next season, Smith landed in the training camp of the New England Patriots, even though some of his friends wondered why he wanted to play for a team coming off a 5-11 season and for a head coach, Bill Belichick, who seemed on his way to getting fired by a second N.F.L. team.The Patriots already had two, young homegrown running backs, so what kind of chance would they give a veteran discarded by the second-rate Bills?Smith became the first conspicuous castoff to end up playing a prominent role in a Patriots championship. In New England’s first Super Bowl victory in 2002, it was Smith — not the St. Louis Rams star Marshall Faulk — who became the game’s leading rusher, with 92 yards.“I turned out to be the perfect fit that they needed,” Smith recalled in a telephone interview Thursday. “Belichick told me when I got there: ‘Do what you’re told and you’ll have a role.’ He spoke the truth.”Such surprises have become a staple of the Belichick era: The Patriots win a Super Bowl when someone they found languishing on the waiver wire — or ignored until the bottom of the draft — ends up taking a star turn on pro football’s biggest stage.It does not happen by accident, former Patriots say.“There were always younger guys that maybe got overlooked because there was a piece of their game that hadn’t been fully realized, but Bill sees the potential,” said Matt Light, a former Patriots offensive tackle. Light was not one of the lesser-known players, but he saw many of them suddenly appear in the locker room.“Bill can wait on them, and then he can insert them into roles clearly defined,” Light continued. “Their role is always very well communicated, and they can go out and experience some success. And it’s amazing what success will do for a guy off the street.”[How beloved is Tom Brady in New England?]Smith wasn’t the only unexpected hero of the 2002 Super Bowl. David Patten, a former Arena Football League player who spent four mostly mediocre seasons with two other N.F.L. teams before joining New England, scored the team’s only offensive touchdown in the game when he faked and slipped behind a defender for an 8-yard reception in the end zone that put the Patriots ahead by 11 points.Patten made 165 catches for the Patriots over four seasons, and 15 more in the playoffs.Fast forward to the next Patriots Super Bowl victory, in 2004. Wide receiver David Givens was not a reject from another N.F.L. team; he came to the Patriots as the 253rd overall pick of the 2002 draft, taken in the seventh round. He played very little in his first two seasons, catching just 43 passes. But in the 2004 Super Bowl against the Carolina Panthers, Givens emerged from the shadows to make a 5-yard touchdown reception that gave New England a 14-7 lead just before halftime.Givens had five catches for 69 yards in the game, none more important than an 18-yard reception on third-and-9 that put his team 3 yards from the end zone. It set up the Patriots’ final touchdown, with less than three minutes left.The litany of Patriots who were shrewdly lured from other teams and then became Super Bowl heroes includes Corey Dillon, who was one of the best running backs in the N.F.L. for six years, until his production for the Cincinnati Bengals dropped precipitously in 2003.Dillon’s career seemed in jeopardy as he approached his 30th birthday, and then the Patriots traded for him before the 2004 season. Dillon had the best season of his career and led all rushers in the 2005 Super Bowl. He scored a touchdown and ran for 9 key yards in the Patriots’ final scoring drive in a 24-21 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles.In 2015, the surprise performer was Malcolm Butler, an undrafted, reserve rookie cornerback whose goal-line interception averted certain defeat against the Seattle Seahawks.Two seasons later, Belichick would use his background as a college lacrosse player to recruit an unlikely big-moment star. Chris Hogan, who played lacrosse at Penn State, reinvented himself as a wide receiver, playing four years for the Buffalo Bills, but they made no attempt to match the Patriots’ free-agent contract offer to Hogan before the 2016 season.In the Super Bowl that season, Hogan made a pivotal, 16-yard, third-down catch that led to the tying touchdown against Atlanta late in the fourth quarter. Then in overtime, Hogan had an 18-yard reception that helped vault New England to its fifth Super Bowl victory.“I think the Patriots have shown an ability to see guys for what they can ultimately be, and then they tailor the coaching to see if they can make it happen,” Hogan said here in Atlanta on Thursday. “The idea is to make you better at what you already do well.”Matt Chatham, who played linebacker on three Patriots championship teams from 2002 to 2005, came to New England after he was cut by St. Louis in his rookie year. He had a slightly different take on how the Patriots continually find and polish diamonds in the rough.“They’re not going to put you out in some sort of uncomfortable situation where athletically you wouldn’t be able to do it,” Chatham said. “That said, they may find the things that you do better than anyone else that another scheme doesn’t highlight.”Chatham added, “Then they find a role that fits that.”Smith, who got in nearly on the ground floor of the Belichick regime, said he thought it came down to Belichick’s renowned fastidiousness and punitive nature.“People call Belichick a defensive coach, but if you think he’s not paying attention to everything the offense and special teams are doing, then just try making a mistake in practice on one of those plays,” Smith said. “You’ll be in his doghouse real quick. And he’ll tell you that you’re in the doghouse and then he’ll let you sit on the bench and think about it for a while.“When you get another chance, or your only other chance, it doesn’t matter who you are, you’re ready to make something of it.”Ben Shpigel and Doris Burke contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperFor the first time since he was charged last month with two counts of soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla., Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, commented publicly on the matter, apologizing in vague terms.“I am truly sorry,” Kraft said in a statement released Saturday afternoon. “I know I have hurt and disappointed my family, my close friends, my co-workers, our fans and many others who rightfully hold me to a higher standard.”Kraft continued by mentioning his wife of nearly 50 years, Myra Kraft, who died in 2011 of ovarian cancer. “Throughout my life, I have always tried to do the right thing,” he said. “The last thing I would ever want to do is disrespect another human being. I have extraordinary respect for women; my morals and my soul were shaped by the most wonderful woman, the love of my life, who I was blessed to have as my partner for 50 years.”Kraft was charged with the two misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution last month, after the police said he twice visited the Orchids of Asia Day Spa and solicited sexual services. In the immediate aftermath, a spokesman for Kraft denied he had done anything illegal, and he has pleaded not guilty to the charges. Kraft has kept a low profile, but friends say he is tormented by what he has done.His statement came the day before N.F.L. owners were to begin arriving at the Arizona Biltmore in Phoenix for the league’s annual meeting, where owners and N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell are sure to be peppered with questions about Kraft.As the owners meet, Kraft’s legal case will continue. Prosecutors in Florida have offered Kraft, and the 24 other men who were similarly accused, a deal that would entail dropping the charges in exchange for a fine, community service and, crucially, admitting that if the case were to go to trial, prosecutors would win.So far, Kraft has declined to accept the deal. He has hired some of the top lawyers in the country, who have argued that the police mishandled the case and asked that evidence in the case be kept private.Kraft is scheduled to be arraigned in court on March 28, though he is not required to be present. He could also be subject to discipline from the N.F.L., which has wide latitude to punish anyone, including owners, for conduct detrimental to the league, even if he is not convicted of a crime.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebLess than a month after the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl, a group of Massachusetts lawmakers has proposed a bill that would ban organized youth tackle football until after seventh grade.The bill, which moved to the Massachusetts legislature’s Joint Committee on Public Health this week, follows unsuccessful attempts by legislators in five other states to pass similar measures to protect growing brains from traumatic injury.The bipartisan bill, known as No Hits, would impose financial penalties for any school league or other entity that does not comply.“There is significant science detailing repetitive head impacts have long-term neurological consequences, especially when they occur during brain development,” one of the bill’s sponsors, Representative Paul A. Schmid III, a Democrat, said in a statement.Although some medical professionals and former N.F.L. players have signaled their support for the measure and public opinion could buoy its prospects, the bill is already facing headwinds.Two representatives who initially supported the measure have withdrawn their names from the bill, and a few other legislators said they would not support it.“Should we ban youth soccer too?” asked Representative David Nangle, a Democrat who opposes the bill. “Or youth hockey? When do we stop legislating into areas that we shouldn’t be?”A spokeswoman for U.S.A. Football, which governs youth football, said in a statement that the organization believes that decisions on allowing children to play football are “best left to parents.” To that end, she said, it has created a set of guidelines developed by leaders in athlete development and football.The executive director of Pop Warner, Jon Butler, said in a statement that the organization had worked to improve player safety by eliminating the three-point stance and removing kickoffs for younger athletes. “Banning football is not the answer, but we do agree that we should continue our efforts to make the game safer for our kids,” he said.Studies by Boston University and other research centers have shown that children who began playing tackle football before the age of 12 were at greater risk for cognitive, mood and behavioral issues later in life, as well as conditions like chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.But there has been opposition to those findings from the N.F.L. and even from well-intentioned parents, said Michael Kaplen, a lawyer who teaches a legal course on traumatic brain injury and tracks legislation governing youth tackle football. Mr. Kaplen said that there was no such thing as safer tackling and that a youth league’s promoting safer tackling would be similar to big tobacco companies’ offering low-nicotine cigarettes.“People don’t understand that even a minor blow to the head has risks,” he said. “It may take years for these problems to become unmasked.”Steve Dembowski, 49, an executive board member of the Massachusetts High School Football Coaches Association, said parents, rather than the state, should be able to make choices for their children.“Considering that kids at that age get concussions playing soccer and baseball and any other sport where they can fall and hit their head on the ground,” he said, “it seems like an overstep of authority.”Damon Stanton, 43, has two sons who play football, and he coaches youth football in Hanson, Mass., about 25 miles south of Boston.“I understand the concern,” he said, citing the Boston University study. But he said more attention should be paid to the work that is being done to make the sport safer since the “knuckle-dragging days” when “you would hit hit hit, and run until you were puking” during practice.He said his team had invested in new equipment, like foam tires that minimize player contact during practices, and introduced shoulder-tackling techniques developed by U.S.A. Football.Mr. Stanton acknowledged that he might not be as influential as the Patriots’ head coach, Bill Belichick, adding that he is not “a political guy.”“But,” he said, “I’ll definitely be calling my rep to let him know how I feel.”In recent years, tackle football has lost some of its luster among middle and high schoolers, and their parents. In 2017, about 2.4 million athletes from ages 6 to 17 regularly played the sport, down slightly from the year before, according to the Sports & Fitness Industry Association. Rugby is gaining popularity because its tackling techniques appear less risky, which increasingly appeals to coaches who are leery of concussions.There have been moves in some parts of the country to further address player safety for tackle football at the high school level. This month, the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association adopted new guidelines intended to sharply reduce the amount of contact allowed during high school practices.But several efforts last year to pass statewide legislation governing youth leagues were quashed by grass-roots movements led by parents and coaches.When Assemblywoman Valerie Vainieri Huttle of New Jersey proposed banning tackle football for children under 12, parents, coaches and players threatened to vote her out of office, she said in an email.That bill is currently in limbo.“Unfortunately, the old boys’ club of politics and football go hand in hand,” said Ms. Huttle, a Democrat. “This bill has and will continue to receive pushback because it goes against the American grain.”A similar bill in New York failed, and California’s Safe Football Act was pulled before a committee vote. The Dave Duerson Act, named after a Chicago Bears player who killed himself at age 50,  did not make it past the Illinois legislature. And Maryland’s proposal, which also would have prohibited heading in soccer, was killed in committee.These efforts, futile as they sometimes prove to be, still have a positive effect, supporters say.“I really did not expect it to pass,” said Delegate Terri Hill, the Democratic legislator who sponsored Maryland’s bill.“But I think it’s a conversation we have to have,” she said, “and I don’t think the conversation is over.”Representative Bradley H. Jones, a Republican who is a sponsor of the Massachusetts bill, echoed Ms. Hill.“Some football programs have already made changes indicating that there is at least some recognition of this problem,” he said. “If this bill does nothing else, I am hopeful that it starts a dialogue that will lead to the implementation of best practices and standards across the board to protect kids from long-term brain injuries.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ed O’LoughlinDUBLIN — A European Union regulator has ruled that McDonald’s must give up trademark rights to one of its cornerstone products — the Big Mac — in a long-running dispute with an Irish fast-food chain called Supermac’s.The decision is potentially a big reversal for McDonald’s, which has argued that Supermac’s sounds confusingly similar to Big Mac. Earlier rulings from the European Union’s Intellectual Property Office in favor of McDonald’s had forced Supermac’s, a string of restaurants mainly in rural Ireland, to shelve its plans to expand in Europe.But last week, the office accepted the Irish chain’s argument that McDonald’s had not properly registered its Big Mac trademark. It was an unlikely victory for a company with annual revenue of about $93 million over one taking in $22.8 billion.Pat McDonagh, the founder and owner of Supermac’s, said McDonald’s had become a global “trademark bully.”“The name Supermac comes from when I used to play Gaelic football — that was my nickname as a boy,” he said. “We felt we should be allowed to use any part of my own name we liked so long as it doesn’t infringe on anyone else’s name.”McDonald’s, which did not immediately respond to requests for comment, can appeal the decision.The dispute dates to 2014 when McDonald’s — famously defensive of its brands and trademarks — opposed Supermac’s application for a European Union trademark for its name.McDonald’s cited its company name and many “Mc”-branded products — McFlurry, McNuggets, McMuffin. But the case came down to the similarity between Supermac’s and Big Mac, the only McDonald’s brand using Mac instead of Mc. (Mac is a common Irish and Scots surname prefix, meaning “son of,” and is often shortened to Mc.)At the time, the Intellectual Property Office ruled that the fact that both Macs came after a similar qualifier — Super and Big — could “result in a likelihood of confusion.”In response, Supermac’s argued that McDonald’s had never correctly registered its right to the Big Mac trademark in the first place.The Big Mac is probably as well known in Europe as it is in its native United States. It has been 25 years since Quentin Tarantino’s cult movie “Pulp Fiction” featured a discussion about hamburger nomenclature in France, where — thanks to the metric system — a Quarter Pounder is called a Royale With Cheese but “a Big Mac’s a Big Mac.”Supermac’s lawyers contested the process by which the brand had been legally trademarked, and the Intellectual Property Office ultimately agreed. It found that the documentation provided by McDonald’s was not sufficient to show that Big Mac had been “put to genuine use in the union for the goods or services for which it is registered” during the requisite previous five years.“If you have a registered trademark, you have to use it or lose it,” said Glen Gibbons, an Irish barrister and expert on intellectual property who was not involved in the case. “Your trademark can be challenged on grounds of lack of use. It is then incumbent on the trademark owner to show that they were really using the trademark and selling it in a substantive part of the E.U.”The proof furnished by McDonald’s included internally generated company material and a printout of a Wikipedia entry on the history of the Big Mac.“As far as the printout from en.wikipedia.org is concerned, it is noted that Wikipedia entries cannot be considered as a reliable source of information, as they can be amended by Wikipedia’s users,” the judgment noted.Having won his case, Mr. McDonagh plans to register the Supermac’s trademark Europewide and resume planning for an expansion into British cities with large Irish populations.The case has been greeted with pleasure in Ireland, where Supermac’s has become something of a national institution. Founded in 1978 in small-town Ballinasloe, County Galway, Supermac’s has 102 outlets in the Republic of Ireland and four in Northern Ireland. (McDonald’s has about 37,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries.)Mr. Gibbons, the trademark lawyer, said he thought McDonald’s was likely to appeal what appeared to be quite a technical decision. The two chains might also decide to negotiate a settlement.And a further complication might come into play: If Britain leaves the European Union without a trade deal in March, the trademark litigation will abruptly cease to have any jurisdiction there.“We don’t know what’s going to happen — maybe it won’t happen at all,” Mr. McDonagh said of a no-deal “Brexit.” “It does make common sense, as far as I can see, to leave things as they are.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiAt least three members of the New England Patriots have said they won’t go to the White House if invited to celebrate their Super Bowl victory.In separate interviews, Duron Harmon, Jason McCourty and Devin McCourty all said that they would decline a visit. While none said why, President Trump has long polarized professional athletes, especially after his attacks on Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, and other players protesting police brutality and racial injustice.In an interview after Sunday night’s game, Mr. Harmon, a safety, told a TMZ Sports reporter that he would not go if invited. “They don’t want me in the White House,” he said.When the interviewer asked if Mr. Harmon would try to see former President Barack Obama instead, Mr. Harmon suggested that he would.“Hey Obama, man, come holler at me,” he said. “We love you over here.”In an interview with The Associated Press, the twin McCourty brothers also said they would probably skip a trip to Washington.Presidents traditionally invite championship-winning teams to the White House to celebrate their victories, though Mr. Trump has rescinded at least two such offers after players publicly said they would not attend.Last year, he withdrew an invitation for the Super Bowl-champion Philadelphia Eagles after it became clear that nearly all of the players and coaches would boycott the visit. In 2017, Mr. Trump rescinded another such offer to the Golden State Warriors after one member of the N.B.A. team, Stephen Curry, suggested he would not attend.The protesting players and coaches have typically declined such visits because of Mr. Trump’s policies and statements, particularly his attacks on Mr. Kaepernick, who famously began kneeling during the national anthem at games in 2016 in protest of police brutality toward African-Americans.The Patriots, however, have a more complicated relationship with the president.The team’s owner, Robert K. Kraft, is a longtime supporter of Mr. Trump and considers him a friend, though Mr. Kraft did criticize the president for his response to the protests during the national anthem. Bill Belichick, the team’s coach, wrote a letter of support to Mr. Trump days before he won the 2016 election. And Tom Brady, the team’s star quarterback, has long faced questions about his relationship with Mr. Trump, whom he has known for years.When Mr. Trump invited the Patriots to the White House after their 2017 Super Bowl victory, at least two dozen players skipped the event, including Mr. Brady, who said he was spending time with his ailing mother. Mr. Harmon and Devin McCourty also did not attend, while Jason McCourty was not yet a member of the team.At the time, a Patriots spokesman said that 34 players had attended the 2017 White House event, a turnout similar to events hosted by President George W. Bush in 2004 and 2005. When Mr. Obama hosted the team in 2015, nearly 50 players showed up.The spokesman cited another factor that could affect attendance: the Patriots’ frequent Super Bowl wins. Now, veteran players on a team that has won three championships in five years could find a White House visit less special, regardless of who occupies the Oval Office.And Mr. Trump may be a lightning rod, but he is not the only president to face a protest from an athlete. In 2012, Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas declined to attend a White House event hosted by Mr. Obama in protest of what he described as a federal government that had “grown out of control.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinCOLUMBIA, S.C. — To have one excellent left-hander on a basketball team is not uncommon. Bill Russell, David Robinson, James Harden, Manu Ginobili and Tiny Archibald are some of the most accomplished players with a dominant left hand.But to have two top left-handed players on the same team — two floor leaders capable of dominating games all by themselves — is something else entirely.Duke, a team often laden with unique talent, now features Zion Williamson and his fellow southpaw R. J. Barrett, the two best lefties in college basketball. Both are freshmen and destined for the top of this summer’s N.B.A. draft lottery, making their last few games together in the N.C.A.A. tournament a left-handers’ delight.“These guys would dominate with either hand,” the former Duke star Grant Hill said, “but it definitely adds another element.”Basketball is not like baseball, where left-handedness can be a virtue for pitchers and for hitters, some of whom learn to hit from both sides of the plate to gain an advantage. In hockey, players shoot one way or the other, and that tends to be it. In football, quarterbacks are known to throw strictly from one side or the other — at least until Patrick Mahomes completed a pass with his left hand last season.But in basketball — as in soccer and lacrosse — ambidexterity is encouraged. Larry Bird, the Hall of Famer from Indiana State and the Boston Celtics, was predominantly right-handed. But he was so good with his left hand that he once played a game in Portland shooting almost exclusively lefty, just as a challenge to himself, and he wound up with a triple-double.Williamson and Barrett have demonstrated they can use either hand, too. Williamson, for one, has gained attention for his thunderous dunks, and he does not discriminate when he goes above the rim. Many of his dunks have been with his right hand, or both. But two of his best stuffs this season — a windmill dunk against Indiana and a 360-degree slam against Clemson — were thrown down with his left hand.Barrett can be just as dominant. On Friday, he had 26 points and 14 assists against North Dakota State.“It’s great being left-handed,” Barrett said.According to several studies, 10 percent to 12 percent of the global population is estimated to be left-handed — give or take a few bullpen specialists and the odd lefty place-kicker. But Barrett and Williamson are not the first for Duke.After all, this is the college were Lefty Driesell played in the 1950s. And as recently as last year, Duke’s lefty big man Marvin Bagley III was taken with the second pick in the N.B.A. draft. But Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski does not discriminate.“It’s cool being right-handed, too,” Krzyzewski said.Barrett, who is listed as 6-foot-7 and 200 pounds, arrived at the N.C.A.A. tournament averaging 22.9 points and 7.5 rebounds a game. Williamson, a bruising but athletically gifted 6-7, 285-pound forward, was averaging 22.1 points, 8.9 rebounds and 1.8 blocks.That is a 1-2 lefty combo that has knocked out 30 opponents already. On Friday, North Dakota State asked the lithe 6-8 forward Deng Geu to cover Williamson at least some of the time. Geu said before the game that he was well aware that Duke showcased two dominant lefties, and the Bison’s scouting reports noted it clearly. Still, sometimes that most basic information can escape a defender, giving a lefty a microsecond advantage.“You go over the scouting report several times to get it locked in your head,” Geu said. “But once the ball goes up, sometimes you forget it.”Duke is not the only recent college team to feature a pair of dominant lefties. From 2014 to 2016, the 6-10 Domantas Sabonis and the 7-1 Przemek Karnowski gave Gonzaga a left-handed, twin-tower frontcourt. And one of the more prominent college basketball teams to feature a pair of lefties was St. John’s in the mid-1980s, with Chris Mullin and Walter Berry.That lefty duo led St. John’s to the Final Four in 1985, a feat Williamson, Barrett and Duke hope to match shortly. The former Georgetown coach John Thompson, whose team beat St. John’s in a national semifinal that year, said the Mullin-Berry combination might have been a tad more challenging to cope with because of their left-handedness. And Thompson knew all about defending lefties.As a player with the Boston Celtics, he was often assigned to guard Russell, the game’s most successful left-hander, during practices.“Russ was great no matter what, but I always thought it gave him a slight advantage,” said Thompson, who broadcasts tournament games for Westwood One Radio. “You are so used to covering a guy’s right hand, and then he goes up with the other hand, and it might give him that split-second he needs to finish.”Thompson also believes lefties have a slight advantage on defense, too, for the same reason. Opponents are not used to facing them.Hill, who played 18 seasons in the N.B.A. and in three national championship games with Duke, said left-handed players often gave him headaches. “When you are facing an elite left-handed player, you have to be really focused and locked in and guard them a little differently,” he said.Covering a superstar like Harden or Ginobili was never easy, he said. But even some left-handed role players, like Thaddeus Young, in particular, caused him grief.“Young used to give me problems,” Hill said. “You think, ‘Is it because he’s a lefty?’ I don’t know for sure, but I always wondered that.”Williamson and Barrett do not pose problems just because they are left-handed. But on top of all that size and talent, it’s just one more thing for teams to contend with.“It’s amazing to see,” Barrett said. “You don’t really know which way we’re going to go.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Ken BelsonMore than 50 cameras blanketed the Superdome on Sunday afternoon, ensuring endless angles and replays of every highlight from the N.F.C. championship game between the New Orleans Saints and Los Angeles Rams.At stake was a trip to next month’s Super Bowl, but when the officials needed a replay most, the N.F.L.’s complicated rules for what is and is not subject to video review prohibited them from watching one, even in the midst of a game that cost tens of millions of dollars to produce and is among the most watched events on television.So, despite dizzying rules changes and stunning camera angles all aimed at getting the calls right, the decision came down to a simple fact: The most important guy was standing in the wrong place at the wrong time and nobody could do anything about it.Those rules might change this off-season, though in the past the N.F.L. has shown little appetite for making penalties reviewable because they are considered judgment calls. This means that rulings of fact — such as whether a ball crossed the goal line, or a foot touched the sideline, or whether a pass is complete — are reviewable. Whether a player committed holding or pass interference is not.In the minute after a crucial late-game play on which referees could have called two separate penalties on Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman but opted to call none, Fox’s broadcast team showed five separate replays that made clear officials had made a terrible mistake. It appeared to cost the Saints an advantage that could have led to their winning the game. As those replays rolled, the side judge Gary Cavaletto, who was near the play, endured an earful from Saints Coach Sean Payton.However, in an era when anyone watching on a high-definition television at home has as good a view as the officials on the field do, as well as the benefit of reverse angles and slow motion for each play, the harsh judgment of the world most often ends up carrying the day: The official screwed up.The Saints owner Gayle Benson rendered her judgment in an emotional statement issued late Monday afternoon, vowing to make sure no team ever experiences what hers did Sunday.“I have been in touch with the N.F.L. regarding yesterday’s events and will aggressively pursue changes in N.F.L. policies to ensure no team and fan base is ever put in a similar position again,” Benson said. “The N.F.L. must always commit to providing the most basic of expectations — fairness and integrity.”The league declined to issue a statement about what will undoubtedly become one of the most notorious non-calls in the league’s history. An N.F.L. spokesman, Brian McCarthy, also declined to comment when asked about the play. The head official for the game, Bill Vinovich, told a pool reporter after the game that he had not seen the play, pointing out that plays involving potential pass interference are not reviewable.The closest thing to an official league position came from Payton, the Saints’ head coach. After the game, he said he had spoken on the phone with Alberto Riveron, the N.F.L.’s senior vice president of officiating, who told him the officials botched the call, a position the league chose not to refute.While the relative silence may seem odd in the age of very public apologies and mea culpas, the N.F.L. actually has no consistent strategy for dealing with high-profile officiating errors, a reflection of what is often an idiosyncratic approach to crisis management. Sometimes Roger Goodell, the league’s commissioner, chooses to say plenty; other times he says nothing at all.When it comes to major officiating mistakes, oftentimes what happened does not become clear until years later, when the official involved chooses to speak.Bill Leavy can’t forget Super Bowl XL. As an N.F.L. referee, officiating the biggest game of the season should have been an honor for Leavy. Instead, it is the night he will always remember for all the wrong reasons.Leavy and his crew made several controversial calls that went against the Seattle Seahawks, who ended up losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers by 21-10. The league tried to protect Leavy’s crew when it said the game was “properly officiated.”Years later, Leavy acknowledged the missed calls and said they still weighed on him.“It left me with a lot of sleepless nights, and I think about it constantly,” Leavy told reporters in Seattle in 2010, four years after the game. “I’ll go to my grave wishing that I’d been better.”Video replay was supposed to rectify much of that. The former N.F.L. coach Mike Holmgren refers to it as the “50 guys in a bar” rule. If 50 people watching in a bar agree it’s a bad call, it should probably be overturned. Yet, like a lot of things that happen in the N.F.L., which has a dense, 89-page rule book, it is never that simple.Cavaletto might want to heed Leavy’s remorse. Cavaletto, the side judge in the N.F.C. championship game on Sunday, has been widely ridiculed for not calling a penalty late in the fourth quarter on Robey-Coleman, who drilled New Orleans Saints receiver Tommylee Lewis before the ball arrived.Cavaletto, who did not grant an interview, and the other referees could have called penalties for pass interference or a helmet-to-helmet hit, but they chose to call neither.The Saints settled for a field goal, but enough time remained on the clock for the Rams to march down the field and kick a field goal that sent the game into overtime. The Rams ended up winning the game, 26-23.“It was simple: They blew the call,” Payton said after the game.Cavaletto, 63, spent most of his N.F.L. career as a field judge before becoming a sideline judge before the 2014 season. He worked Super Bowl XLVI in 2012, between the Giants and New England Patriots.He is a 1973 graduate of Bishop Diego High School in Santa Barbara, Calif., where he played football, baseball and basketball. Cavaletto later played parts of three seasons in the Atlanta Braves minor league system, as a first baseman.After washing out of baseball, Cavaletto became a three-sport official, officiating Division I college basketball and baseball games, as well as Canadian Football League and Arena Football League games, before making his N.F.L. debut in 2003.He, too, will most likely live with his non-call for years to come.In the past, officials involved in controversial calls have not worked subsequent games involving the aggrieved team. It is a good bet, then, that Cavaletto will not be seen at future Saints games.Infuriated Saints fans, who have long insisted that the N.F.L. remains biased against them because its coaches were found to have rewarded injuring opponents, took to social media after the game to note that Cavaletto lives a mere two hours from Los Angeles.His non-call may also lead to change.That is, after all, what happened after a series of mistakes involving the N.F.L.’s so-called “tuck rule.”The most famous invocation of that rule came during a playoff game in 2002, when a fumble by Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was overturned and ruled an incomplete pass after a replay review by the referee Walt Coleman. Brady’s arm, Coleman ruled, had begun a forward movement before he attempted to tuck the ball back toward his body. The Patriots went on to defeat the Oakland Raiders in overtime.While the N.F.L. elected to leave the rule as-is following that game, a push to make a change began in earnest after another instance in a 2011 playoff game between the Baltimore Ravens and the Kansas City Chiefs. Finally, in 2013, after continued consternation over the regulation, the N.F.L. abolished the tuck rule.Even though Coleman officiated for 17 seasons after the game before retiring this year, he never officiated another Raiders game.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.AdvertisementSuper Bowl liiiAt 33, McVay will be the youngest head coach in Super Bowl history. To put it mildly, the rest of the N.F.L. has noticed.Coach Sean McVay has gone a combined 24-8 in his first two seasons with the Los Angeles Rams.CreditCreditKirby Lee/USA Today Sports, via ReutersSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanATLANTA — Mozart was composing music at 5. Sergey Karjakin became a chess grandmaster at 12. Blaise Pascal invented the mechanical calculator as a teenager. And Sean McVay led the Los Angeles Rams to the Super Bowl at 33.One of those four does not really qualify as a prodigy. But that has not stopped virtually everyone in the football world from throwing the word around in the last few weeks in reference to McVay, a second-year head coach who has become the toast of the N.F.L. in the lead-up to Super Bowl LIII.As with most things Super Bowl-related, McVay-as-prodigy is a narrative born of something true and then expanded to an uncomfortable degree. The rush to replicate McVay’s success began in earnest in January, when a league of teams that have often relied on retread coaches and established hierarchies suddenly was in need of its next boy genius.The Green Bay Packers created a McVay coaching tree, of sorts, by hiring his former offensive coordinator, Matt LaFleur, who is 39, to be their head coach. The Cleveland Browns hired Freddie Kitchens, a 44-year-old offensive guru, to lead their staff. And in an extreme example of McVay mania, the Arizona Cardinals’ website, in its official announcement about the hiring of the 39-year-old Kliff Kingsbury as the team’s new head coach, noted that Kingsbury was friends with McVay. That the two had never coached together seemed not to matter, though after some blowback, the team amended the announcement to remove the part about their friendship while still noting that McVay is a young “offensive genius who has become the blueprint of many of the new coaching hires around the N.F.L.” and had recently offered Kingsbury a chance to join the Rams as an offensive consultant.“It’s certainly humbling and flattering,” McVay said of the hiring trend, “but I think more than anything it’s a reflection of the success the Rams have had.”In the end, teams may discover that replicating McVay will be difficult.Young, offensive-minded coaches are “the vogue thing right now,” said Brian Billick, the former Baltimore Ravens coach. “Some will be successful, and some won’t. Eighty percent will probably fail.” Very few coaches have engineered the kind of turnaround that the Rams have made in two seasons under McVay, who, despite having coached in the N.F.L. since 2008, is younger than one of his players, and two of the Patriots.He began his head coaching career by taking the Rams from a 4-12 record with a league-low average of 14 points a game in 2016 to 11-5 with a league-leading average of 29.9 points in 2017. Then McVay proved that was no fluke by improving a bit more this season, to 13-3 with an average of 32.9 points a game.McVay, who has already become a master of coaching catchphrases and clichés, has regularly tried to expand the spotlight to the other coaches around him. He frequently uses the phrase “we, not me” to describe his team’s approach.“One of the things that’s so important is surrounding yourself with great people,” he said, “specifically in those other areas where they have leadership roles.”His call for inclusiveness extends to coaches of all ages. His first hire for the Rams was Wade Phillips, a 71-year-old defensive coordinator who had been coaching in the N.F.L. for 10 years when McVay was born. Phillips said he was somewhat familiar with McVay, then the offensive coordinator of the Washington Redskins, before his hiring, but that it was a call from Phillips’s son, Wes, who had replaced McVay as Washington’s tight ends coach, that set the whole thing in motion. Wes Phillips asked his father if he would be interested in joining a McVay staff should the opportunity arise.“I said, ‘You know he’s 30 years old; you think he’s going to get one?’” Wade Phillips said on Thursday. “He said, ‘Dad, if he interviews for one, he’s going to get it.’”He added that the first call from McVay was straightforward: “He said, ‘Would you interested in going with me if I got a job?’ and I said, ‘Yeah, sure.’”But even with the Phillips hiring serving as a nod to his elders, McVay seems content to play up his own youthfulness. Short and fit by N.F.L. coaching standards and naturally baby-faced, he spikes his hair up with product and trims his beard into a perfect 5 o’clock shadow.He talks glowingly about watching Tom Brady win the 2002 Super Bowl — when McVay was 16 — and revels in getting congratulatory text messages from Patriots Coach Bill Belichick, who is twice his age.And in what served as the perfect visual for the N.F.L.’s only millennial head coach, a video circulated recently in which Ted Rath, a Rams assistant, repeatedly pulled McVay out of the way of officials on the sideline, with the whole thing set to music. McVay is hardly the only coach to have a spotter charged with making sure he is out of the way, but the coach’s seeming obliviousness to Rath’s maneuvers created a scene that, depending on your age, reflected either a lack of situational awareness or a remarkable ability to focus.When McVay signed on to become head coach of the Rams, he was 30 years 11 months old, which made him the youngest person in that role in the N.F.L. since 1938, when Art Lewis, at 27, was hired by the Cleveland Rams (a team that would eventually move to Los Angeles, then to St. Louis, and then back to Los Angeles).Before McVay, the youngest N.F.L. head coach of the modern era was Lane Kiffin, who was hired by the Oakland Raiders at 31 years 8 months old (and then fired 20 months later), and the youngest head coach to lead his team to a Super Bowl was Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who was 36. For an idea of how unusual it is for coaches to reach the league’s pinnacle that early, the previous seven Super Bowls have been won by coaches who were 50 and older.Billick is one of the few people who can relate to McVay’s experience of being the N.F.L.’s hot new thing. Hired to coach the Ravens in 1999, after coordinating a Minnesota Vikings offense that averaged an eye-popping 34.8 points a game, Billick turned the hype into results by winning a Super Bowl in his second season, a feat McVay could match on Sunday.Billick called McVay a brilliant coach, praising his ability to change up looks at the line of scrimmage. But he could not quite stop himself from diluting the praise by pointing out that there is relatively little difference between the offense McVay runs and the one employed by Belichick and New England’s offensive coordinator, Josh McDaniels.McDaniels also took a turn as the N.F.L.’s coveted young coach. Ten years ago, he left the Patriots at 32 to become the Denver Broncos’ head coach, a job he lost 12 games into his second season. The similarities between him and McVay led to an amusing scene on Monday involving a reporter and McDaniels.“Everyone continues to talk about Sean McVay and his young mind, and they seem to have forgotten about you,” the reporter said before asking, “What kind of advice do you have for him?”McDaniels, who is still just 42, clearly had anticipated questions about McVay, even ones as harshly worded as that. He jumped right in with praise.“There’s nothing you can say about what Sean’s done that’s not in some way shape or form a superlative,” McDaniels said. “He’s pretty special. I think we need to appreciate him for what he is and who he is and what he’s done at an early age.”The grandson of John McVay, who was a Giants head coach and an executive who helped shape the dynastic San Francisco 49ers of the 1980s and 1990s, Sean McVay was a star quarterback in high school — he was named Georgia’s 4A offensive player of the year over Calvin Johnson in 2003 — but a transition to wide receiver at Miami University did not lead to any professional opportunities.His first stop in the N.F.L. was as an assistant wide receivers coach for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2008. He worked under Jon Gruden and Gruden’s younger brother, Jay, who was an offensive assistant. Aside from his grandfather, McVay said, those two men have had the largest impact on his career.“Jon Gruden taught me the foundation of what I know about this game,” he said. “Took me under his arm, taught me to see it from a big-picture perspective.”McVay went on to coach tight ends for the Redskins, and eventually worked again for Jay Gruden, who became Washington’s head coach in 2014. He promptly promoted McVay, at 28, to offensive coordinator.After developing Kirk Cousins as a quarterback, McVay was hired by the Rams to revamp their moribund franchise. In the announcement of McVay’s hiring, Stan Kroenke, the Rams’ owner, set the bar extremely high for success.“We are confident in his vision to make this team a consistent winner,” Kroenke said, “and we will all continue to work together to achieve our ultimate goal — bringing a Rams Super Bowl championship home to Los Angeles.”Come Sunday, McVay will either be the youngest head coach to win a Super Bowl or the youngest head coach to lose one. But regardless of whether you want to call him a prodigy, an offensive guru, or simply a coach, McVay will have to watch his back. In a copycat league, some other team can always go younger.Naila-Jean Meyers contributed reporting.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanLe’Veon Bell, the superstar running back who sat out last season in a salary dispute with the Pittsburgh Steelers, has agreed to a free-agent deal with the Jets.Bell, 27, is considered one of the most versatile offensive players in the N.F.L. After ESPN broke the news early Wednesday that he had come to terms with the Jets, Bell confirmed it on Twitter and Instagram.I’m back in the green baby, let’s get itESPN has reported that the deal is for four years and $52.5 million, with $35 million guaranteed. The deal cannot be officially completed until the N.F.L.’s new league year begins on Wednesday afternoon.Bell’s anticipated average salary of $13.25 million would make him the league’s second-highest-paid running back, behind Todd Gurley of the Los Angeles Rams. But that could be a bargain with Bell, as other than the question marks created by a year away from the game he represents a dramatic upgrade for the Jets, a team that ranked 26th in the N.F.L. in rushing last year.Selected by Pittsburgh with the 48th pick of the 2013 draft, Bell had a solid rookie campaign before exploding in 2014 with 2,215 yards from scrimmage and 11 touchdowns. While his time on the field has been limited somewhat by drug and substance abuse suspensions — along with his full-season holdout — he has 7,996 yards from scrimmage in 62 career games.With the Jets he will be the centerpiece of an offense designed by the team’s new coach, Adam Gase, the mastermind of a Denver Broncos offense that averaged 37.9 points a game with Peyton Manning in 2013. (Under Gase, the Miami Dolphins finished in the bottom half of the league in scoring the past three seasons.)Bell will serve as the Jets’ top running back, but he will also be one of their most talented receivers. That will help take some of the burden off quarterback Sam Darnold, who is still developing after being selected with the No. 3 overall pick last year. In Darnold’s uneven rookie season, the Jets had a running back surpass 100 rushing yards in a game only two times.In Bell, the Jets are anticipating production out of the backfield unlike anything the team has seen since Curtis Martin retired. Martin, a Hall of Fame running back, twice surpassed 1,800 yards from scrimmage in a season for the Jets — the only two times in franchise history that a player has done so. Bell easily topped that figure in three of his last four seasons.Bell’s decision, which had been eagerly anticipated since the league’s so-called legal tampering period opened on Monday, officially ends a stalemate that resulted in the unusual choice by a player to give up an entire season of his prime. While Bell had consistently thrived on the field in Pittsburgh, he regularly clashed with the front office off it, believing he was being dramatically underpaid once his versatility was considered.After a strong 2017 season, in which he rushed for 1,291 yards and led the N.F.L. with 406 touches, Bell turned down a contract offer that was reported at five years and $70 million, citing the small amount of guaranteed money in the deal. He then refused to play on a franchise tag that would have paid him $14.5 million in 2018, hoping that his conviction could earn a shot at unrestricted free agency.The gambit paid off, at least in terms of freeing him from Pittsburgh’s control, as the Steelers decided they would not use the franchise tag on him again, making him a free agent. In exchange for his signing with the Jets, Pittsburgh will receive a compensatory pick in this year’s draft.The Steelers, who adequately replaced Bell with James Conner and then barely missed the playoffs, have now lost two All-Pro offensive players this off-season. On Saturday the team agreed to trade Antonio Brown, its top wide receiver, to the Oakland Raiders for two midround draft picks.Bell, who grew up in Ohio and starred in college at Michigan State, will not have to wait long to get a chance to prove himself against his former team. The Jets are scheduled to host the Steelers at some point during the season, though an exact date for the game has yet to be announced.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMeet Romostradamus. Savor Romomania. And behold the beauty of real expertise in a country starved of it.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistThe Super Bowl arrives and, with it, so many questions big and small. Is Tom Brady part cyborg and maybe even immortal? Will the Los Angeles Rams be hamstrung by the knowledge that they got this far by the grace of several sleepwalking referees?How frequently will Tony Romo see the future? And might our fascination with that speak to a longing that reaches far beyond football?But first a quick primer on Romo, CBS’s dependably psychic commentator. Over the course of two seasons analyzing National Football League games from the broadcast booth, he has provided more than the usual blather and banter. He guesses what will happen next: blitz or no blitz, run or pass, involving this wide receiver or that tight end. He doesn’t do this for every play, but he does it repeatedly. And if he were picking stocks on Wall Street, he’d be a gazillionaire.Romo hit peak prognostication when he announced the game two weeks ago in which Brady and the New England Patriots eked past the Kansas City Chiefs, earning yet another trip to the Super Bowl. He made 15 specific forecasts. Thirteen were correct. On the two occasions when the team on offense bucked Romo’s soothsaying, “the results were poor — one play ended with an incomplete pass, and the other with a turnover,” noted Zach Helfand in The New Yorker. “It seemed that, even when Romo was wrong, he was right.”Romo, 38, previously spent more than a decade as a quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys. He was great but he wasn’t great, and with him as its leader, the team never went all the way. In a twist that’s testament to second acts in American lives, he’s doing something as a star for CBS that he never did as a star for the Cowboys: going to the Super Bowl. I suppose that’s fitting, because he’s more than great in his current gig. He’s peerless. And he’s a sensation.So much so that after the Patriots-Chiefs game, reporters for The Wall Street Journal studied 46 hours of television footage from this past football season to review the 2,599 plays that Romo had provided live commentary for. Not even the Nixon Tapes got scrutiny like that. The Journal found 72 instances when Romo prophesied what a team was about to do. The team did what he said 68 percent of the time.“A broadcasting phenomenon” is how The Journal describes Romo. Twitter calls him Romostradamus. Football fans gush about Romomania. And this is obviously about more than the novelty of his crystal ball.It’s about the rarity of his unquestionably deep knowledge in an era when so many of the people who put on the trappings of authority and peddle pearls of wisdom don’t actually have the goods. When so many opinions come with a swagger inversely proportional to their worth. When social media, cable channels, webcasts, podcasts, blogs and more have created an environment in which everybody’s an expert and nobody’s an expert — in which it’s sometimes impossible to tell.With Romo you can tell. His verified foresight proves his genuine insight.As I’ve savored his genius and reflected on its appeal, I’ve flashed back to some comments that President Obama made to The New Yorker’s top editor, David Remnick, for a lengthy article in late November 2016 about his waning days in office. Obama was obsessed with the chaotic nature of this new information ecosystem. “Everything is true and nothing is true,” he told Remnick. “An explanation of climate change from a Nobel Prize-winning physicist looks exactly the same on your Facebook page as the denial of climate change by somebody on the Koch brothers’ payroll.”I also flashed back to another article, by Amy Zegart, that appeared in The Atlantic the following summer. It defined the “three paradoxes disrupting American politics,” the first of which was “more information, less credibility.”“The volume of data is exploding, and yet credible information is harder to find,” Zegart wrote. “Why? Because the barriers to entry are so low.” You don’t need a printing press, a book contract or the approval of some gatekeeper to have your say and share your thoughts. You just need an internet connection. And while there’s obvious benefit to that — judgment and permission aren’t the exclusive province of a discriminatory elite — there’s obvious danger, too. Good filters disappear with the bad ones. Cyberspace is at once a smorgasbord and a junkyard.Romo’s habitat — network television — is old-fashioned, but that’s not what distinguishes and recommends him. His seriousness sets him apart. I don’t mean his style, which Helfand likened to “that of a 10-year-old who’s really into dinosaurs showing his uncle the T. rex exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History.” I mean his content. He played football recently and has studied it closely, so he understands what the athletes are thinking, what the coaches are plotting, what makes sense on third down and what doesn’t. He uses the days between the games that he’s announcing to bone up on the teams that will come under his gaze, even interviewing their members. While he comes by his charisma naturally, he makes it a point to be informed.How refreshing, and what an excellent reminder he is that hugely successful athletes aren’t just physically gifted; they’re mentally tough, and many are smart. Their sports pivot on intricate strategy as much as brute strength. To the agile thinkers go the spoils. Ever listened to one of those LeBron James news conferences right after a basketball game? He remembers and can deconstruct every second of it. It’s all there in his brain.Romo found glory aplenty on the football field, but he began to find even greater glory the minute he stepped off it in late 2016, with a farewell speech that was like the climactic monologue in one of those sports movies that has grown men working every last muscle and tendon in their faces not to cry.“I just want to leave you with something I’ve learned in this process,” he said, referring to his quarterbacking years. “I feel like we all have two battles or two enemies going on. One with the man across from you. The second is with the man inside of you. I think once you control the one inside of you, the one across from you really doesn’t matter.”Emotional intelligence along with clairvoyance: That’s no everyday combination. But then he’s no everyday oracle. You can tune in to the Super Bowl to marvel at Brady, chuckle over the commercials and gripe about the halftime show. Or you can come for Romo. He alone is lure enough. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Patriots’ dominant tight end, known for his combination of size and speed, announced his retirement on Instagram.By Benjamin Hoffman and Ken BelsonRob Gronkowski, the dominant tight end who helped lead the New England Patriots to three Super Bowl titles in nine seasons while cultivating a goofy, frat boy persona off the field, announced his retirement from the N.F.L. on Sunday.In an Instagram post, Gronkowski, 29, widely considered one of the most talented tight ends to ever play, thanked the team and its fans for drafting his “silliness” back in 2010 and acknowledged the uncertainty of what will come next for him.“Thank you for everyone accepting who I am and the dedication I have put into my work to be the best player I could be,” he said. “But now its time to move forward and move forward with a big smile knowing that the New England Patriots Organization, Pats Nation, and all my fans will be truly a big part of my heart for rest of my life.”Gronkowski did not say why he was retiring, or what he planned to do next. But according to a report on NFL Network, Gronkowski agreed to a deal with a film or television company before the Super Bowl.Becoming a television or movie personality is not a complete surprise; he seemed to enjoy performing on camera, dancing and hamming it up on things like a Gronk Party Ship in 2016 filled with fans and entertainers on a cruise ship from Miami to the Bahamas. He danced shirtless and appeared to egg on patrons to have sex.There also were a series of injuries that put in question how much longer he could play. He had hinted the past two seasons that he was considering leaving the N.F.L. because of the wear and tear on his body, which led to missed games because of an ankle sprain, a broken forearm, an infection, a herniated disk in his back, a torn A.C.L., a sprained knee, an injured hamstring and a pulmonary contusion, among other injuries.Gronkowski — should this truly be the end — will finish his career with 521 catches, 7,861 yards and a Patriots-record 79 receiving touchdowns. He was named to the Pro Bowl five times and was first-team All-Pro four times, taking full advantage of his size and speed to find mismatches on any given play. His team made the Super Bowl in five of his nine seasons, winning three times, but he was not on the field for the Patriots’ dramatic comeback win over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI because he was recovering for back surgery.When he was on the field, though, he was nearly always the go-to receiver for Tom Brady, with the two combining for thrilling plays in the closing minutes of countless games.“What an honor and privilege to play with you these past nine years @gronk!,’’ Brady wrote on Instagram. “You accomplished so much and our team was almost unbeatable when you were on the field!”Last season, Gronkowski earned nearly $9 million in salary and bonuses. He was able to finish his career on a high note, helping the Patriots — the only team he has played for — beat the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII. Drafted in the second round (42nd over all) of the 2010 draft, Gronkowski used his hulking 6-foot-6 frame to excel as a receiver and a blocker. He also used his size to run over defenders and, at times, confront them. He was fined four times, including once for taunting a player, once for unnecessary roughness and once for his role in a brawl at the end of Super Bowl XLIX.Because of his age and his injury history, much of the talk coming into this year’s Super Bowl was about whether Gronkowski had fallen off as a player. That idea was brushed aside by Aqib Talib, a cornerback for the Rams and a former teammate of Gronkowski’s.“You all haven’t put on shoulder pads and helmets and lined up against Gronk in your life. I do,” Talib said. “So believe me when I tell you, any day he can explode and go crazy.”Just as Talib predicted, Gronkowski played a huge role in the Patriots’ win, with six catches for 87 yards. Two of his catches, which went for a combined 47 yards, set up Sony Michel’s 2-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter, all but deciding the game.As dominant as he was on the field, Gronkowski was equally larger than life off it, frequently standing out among the businesslike Patriots, led by Coach Bill Belichick, with his love of partying and his frequent sophomoric humor, delivered with an exaggerated wink.Gronkowski’s fun-loving personality was candy to his fans. But it came as the N.F.L. was battling the perception — in the wake of several high-profile players being suspended for domestic violence and sexual abuse — that it cared little for how women were treated.Given his size and sense of humor, it was perhaps appropriate that Gronkowski is also a professional wrestling fan and friends with performers including Mojo Rawley. Gronkowski helped him “win” a Battle Royal in 2017. From time to time, speculation has surfaced that WWE was interested in offering Gronkowski a contract.His wrestling cameos might have been a prelude to a new career on screen. Already, he has appeared in the television series “Entourage,” “Family Guy” and “MVP.” He has also appeared in movies, including “The Lit Party,” “You Can’t Have It” and “American Violence.”Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonWashington Redskins linebacker Reuben Foster, who was at the center of criticism over domestic violence in the N.F.L., has escaped prosecution.The state attorney’s office in Hillsborough County, Fla., dropped misdemeanor domestic violence charges against Foster. He was arrested Nov. 24 after an episode involving his ex-girlfriend in the hotel where the San Francisco 49ers, his former team, were staying.The 49ers did not wait for the case to play out and released Foster, a second-year player who had had other brushes with the law during his short N.F.L. tenure. Three days after his arrest, the Redskins claimed Foster, 24, off waivers, reigniting a debate over whether N.F.L. teams were taking the issue of domestic violence seriously enough.Foster is on the commissioner’s exempt list, which means he cannot play in games but can be paid while the league decides whether to suspend him. Foster was supposed to appear at an arraignment in Tampa on Thursday, but the hearing was canceled after prosecutors dropped the case. TMZ first reported that the case had been dropped.Last spring, Foster was charged with domestic violence, also against his ex-girlfriend. Those charges were also later dropped. Foster also had a confrontation with a hospital worker at the N.F.L. scouting combine in 2017, when he grew impatient while waiting for a drug test. He was sent home.The N.F.L. suspended Foster for two games at the start of this season because of an arrest on misdemeanor marijuana possession charges last January. He also faced weapons charges from the previous domestic violence incident because a loaded Sig Sauer 516 rifle was found on a bathroom floor. He pleaded no contest and was sentenced to community service and two years of probation and is prohibited from possessing guns.Foster’s legal troubles have shined an uncomfortable light on the N.F.L. and its stated objective of holding players accountable for their behavior off the field, particularly when it includes violence against women. The league has said it no longer relies solely on law enforcement agencies for guidance on whether players should be penalized, because laws governing domestic violence vary from state to state, and cases can take months to adjudicate.At the same time, the league cannot stop teams from signing players who are fighting charges. The 49ers said that Foster had violated the team’s zero-tolerance policy against domestic violence. The Redskins, though, were widely criticized for signing Foster before his case had been resolved.In a statement after signing Foster, the Redskins said they “fully understand the severity of the recent allegations made against Reuben.” The team added, “If true, you can be sure these allegations are nothing our organization would ever condone.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Megan SpeciaOne was a dairy farmer. Another aspired to be a pilot. One was an elder known for helping newcomers. Another was a teenager who called his mother when the shooting started. The 50 people slaughtered by a gunman at two Christchurch mosques last week spanned a range of backgrounds. Here is what we know about them.Atta Elayyan, 33, was a technology entrepreneur, a goalkeeper and a new father. He played for New Zealand’s national futsal team, according to the New Zealand Football association, which confirmed his death. Futsal is a version of five-a-side soccer played indoors.“There are no words to sum up how we are all feeling,” one of his teammates, Josh Margetts, said in a statement. “There is a huge hole in our hearts as we come to terms with the loss of a great person and a good mate. He will be sorely missed.” Mr. Elayyan was born in Kuwait and studied computer science at the University of Canterbury. He was the chief executive and a co-founder of LWA Solutions, a mobile app start-up. He was well known in the futsal world and in Christchurch’s tech community. He and his wife, Farah, have a young daughter, Aya, whose photos appear in abundance on his Facebook page. In one, she is wearing a bib that says: “My dad rocks.”[We learned more about Mr. Elayyan from his family as they gathered to remember him and say goodbye.]Three-year-old Mucad Ibrahim is the youngest person confirmed to have been killed in the attacks. He was at Al Noor mosque and became separated from his brother and father when the shooting began.“He was a Muslim-born Kiwi who was full of energy, love and happiness,” his family said in a statement. “He is remembered in our community as a young boy who emanated nothing but the representation of God’s love, peace and mercy.”“Will miss you dearly brother,” Mucad’s brother Abdi Ibrahim wrote on Facebook. Mucad was wearing a white thobe and his favorite white hat on Friday, “and so returned to His Lord in a state of pure innocence and spiritual beauty,” the family’s statement said.The family said they had taken solace from a global outpouring of support. “Knowing that New Zealand and the whole world stands behind our boy reassures us that violence and racism are unwelcome in our world,” they said. “I’ve lost my little boy, he’s just turned 14,” Sayyad Milne’s father, John Milne, told The New Zealand Herald through tears.Sayyad was one of two Cashmere High School students killed in the attack, according to the school’s principal, Mark Wilson. The boy was an avid soccer player. “He proved himself to be not only a truly outstanding goalkeeper, but a great friend and colleague, a real team player with a fabulous attitude and a warm and friendly personality,” St. Albans Shirley Football Club said in a statement on Facebook. “Sayyad was one of our own and we will always remember him.”Lilik Abdul Hamid, 57, originally from Indonesia, had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years, the company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement. “He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.” Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said. On Facebook, one of Mr. Hamid’s friends called him “a man with a gold heart who always opened his heart and home to everyone.” Areeb Ahmed, 27, was an employee of PricewaterhouseCoopers, a statement released by the company said. Pakistan’s foreign ministry said he was originally from that country’s largest city, Karachi. “Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family,” the company wrote on Facebook. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”New Zealand Football confirmed the death of Tariq Omar, 24, a soccer player who coached for several of Christchurch United Football Club’s junior teams. Colin Williamson, the club’s academy director, called him “a beautiful human being with a tremendous heart and love for coaching.”“Our coaches and his players are struggling to understand what has happened and we are trying to support our club members as best as we can,” Mr. Williamson said in a statement released by the club. “But of course our main thoughts and concerns go out to Tariq’s family who are in our hearts and prayers.”Shahid Suhail, 35, from Pakistan, was an engineer who worked for a resin manufacturer in Christchurch, according to Stuff, a news website. He had a wife and two young daughters. “His daughters were his life,” said his wife, Asma.Syed Jahandad Ali, 34, originally from Lahore, Pakistan, worked at Intergen, a software company and had a wife and three children, according to a fundraising page created by the company. In a statement, the company called him “a kind and gentle man.”“Syed Jahandad Ali has deeply touched the lives of his friends, colleagues and wider technology community through his knowledge and skills. We are devastated to have lost a very loved Intergenite” the statement read.Haroon Mahmood, 40, had worked in banking in Pakistan before moving to New Zealand, Stuff reported. He taught at a private school for international students and had been a tutor at Lincoln University in Christchurch, according to Radio New Zealand. He had a wife and two children. Farhaj Ahsan, 30, originally from Hyderabad, India, had lived for 10 years in New Zealand, where he worked as an electrical engineer. He left a wife and two children, according to his brother, Kashif Ahsan, who spoke to the BBC. Maheboob Khokhar, a 65-year-old Indian engineer, was on his first trip to New Zealand, visiting his son, who had moved there from India eight years ago. His wife, Akhtar Khokhar, said they had been in the country for two months. He was at Al Noor mosque the day before they had planned to leave. Muhammad Haziq Mohd-Tarmizi, a Malaysian 17-year-old, was among those killed at Al Noor Mosque, the police said. His father was wounded in the attack, according to the Malaysian government. Asif Vora was among five Indian nationals whose deaths were confirmed by the Indian High Commission in New Zealand. Radio New Zealand said he was 58, and that he and his son had been killed at Al Noor mosque.Asif Vora’s son, Ramiz Vora, 28, had become a father just days before his death, according to Radio New Zealand. Ansi Alibava, 25, another of the Indian nationals among the victims, had moved to New Zealand with her husband, Abdul Nazer, in 2018, a year after they had married, he told CNN. She had just completed a master's degree in agribusiness management.Mr. Nazer was near an emergency door at Al Noor mosque when the shooting began and managed to escape. Outside, he saw Ms. Alibava lying facedown and ran to her, but was stopped by a police officer. “She had so many dreams,” he told CNN. Ozair Kadir, 25, dreamed of being a commercial pilot like his older brother. Originally from Hyderabad, India, he had moved to New Zealand in recent years and was set to make that a reality.Messages of grief and support for Mr. Kadir’s family poured in on the Facebook page of the International Aviation Academy of New Zealand, where he was in pilot training. Fellow students gathered on Monday to lay flowers at a makeshift memorial.“Ozair's presence will be sadly missed by all staff and students at the Academy,” the institute said in a statement. “Our love, thoughts and prayers are with his family who are now in New Zealand preparing to take Ozair home.”Haji Daoud al-Nabi, 71, arrived in New Zealand from Afghanistan about 30 years ago and was a central figure in Christchurch’s small Afghan community. He was a leader who welcomed everyone, his son Yama al-Nabi said. His son was running 10 minutes late for Friday Prayers, along with his 8-year-old daughter, when they came upon a police cordon. The younger Mr. Nabi’s hands trembled as he held up his mobile phone to show a picture of his father with his daughter in the mosque on a different day. “I thought I’d make it to the prayers. When I got there, the police were there. I was running and a guy said there was shooting in the mosque,” Yama al-Nabi said. He knew his father was inside, but news of his death only came hours later.Ali Elmadani, 65, immigrated to New Zealand from the United Arab Emirates with his family in 1998, his family confirmed to the Stuff news site. His daughter, Maha Elmadani, said her father had always told the family to be strong, so that was what she was trying to do.“He considered New Zealand home and never thought something like this would happen here,” she told Stuff.Husna Ahmad, 47, led a number of women and children to safety after the shooting at Al Noor mosque began, said Farid Ahmad, her husband. Mr. Ahmad, who is in a wheelchair, said she was killed when she returned to the mosque to check on him.“She was busy with saving lives, forgetting about herself,” said Mr. Ahmad, 59.Mr. Ahmad said he had forgiven the gunman and believed that good would eventually come from the killing. “This is what Islam taught me,” he said.“What he did was a wrong thing, but I would tell him that inside him, he has great potential to be a generous person, to be a kind person, to be a person who would save people, save humanity rather than destroying them,” Mr. Ahmad said. “I hope and I pray for him that he would be a great savior one day. I don’t have any grudge.”In the gunman’s self-made video of the killings he had posted to Facebook, a man can be seen trying to tackle him as he began firing in Al Noor mosque. That man was Naeem Rashid, according to witnesses.His family described him as an intelligent, ambitious and devout father of three. His eldest son, Talha Naeem, was also killed.Mr. Rashid was in his 40s, according to Stuff and Radio New Zealand. His brothers, interviewed in Pakistan, said he had left a senior position at Citibank in the city of Lahore in 2010 to pursue a doctorate in Christchurch and raise his children in a peaceful country. Starting over proved more difficult than he had expected.“Like everybody who leaves this country, he left Pakistan because of lack of opportunities here,” said Dr. Khurshid Alam, one of Mr. Rashid’s brothers. “He went there to do his Ph.D. Because of the financial situation, he couldn’t complete it, so he was teaching part-time.”He became much more devout during his time in New Zealand, according to his brothers. They said he talked about wanting to die a martyr, which he felt was the most honorable way for a Muslim to die. Talha Naeem, 21, had just graduated from college and entered the work force. He was the eldest of Naeem Rashid’s three children — the second is 18, the youngest is 5 — and his father was especially proud of him, according to his family.The family had planned to return to Pakistan in May to help Talha find a wife.Amjad Hamid, 57, was a cardiologist who had spent the last few years working with rural communities in the mountainous area of Taranaki, on New Zealand’s North Island, though he continued to live in Christchurch with his wife and family. At Hawera Hospital in Taranaki, he often brought colleagues fresh baklava from a Christchurch bakery. “He was well liked for his kindness, compassion and sense of humor,” the Taranaki District Health Board said in a statement. “He was a hard-working doctor, deeply committed to caring for his patients, and a thoughtful team member who was supportive of all staff.”Hi wife, Hanan al-Adem, told Radio New Zealand she still could not believe he was gone. “He was the perfect man, it’s a big loss,” she said. Kamel Darwish, 38, arrived early at his brother’s home in Christchurch on the eve of the attack. He had traveled from the countryside, where he worked at a dairy farm, because “he didn’t want to miss Friday prayers,” said his brother, Zuhair Darwish. New Zealand had been his home for just six months. He had moved from Jordan because his brother had convinced him there was no safer, better place to raise a family. His wife and children were set to arrive in a month.“He was caring, he was honest, he was a loving person,” his brother said.Linda Armstrong, 64, was a third-generation New Zealander who grew up in Auckland and converted to Islam in her 50s, her nephew Kyron Gosse said.“Linda had a huge heart and what little she had, she was more than happy to share with her family and Muslim community,” Mr. Gosse wrote in a tribute to his aunt on Facebook. “She would tell me stories about Ramadan when all the families would come together at the mosque sharing homemade meals and having a feast, laughing and chatting.”Lateef Alabi, a leader at the Linwood mosque, told The New York Times that Ms. Armstrong had been among the victims there. Her younger brother, Tony Gosse, remembered her as a peaceful woman with a “a stubborn ideology of this world.”“We didn't always see eye to eye but she lived a very humble lifestyle and was always unselfishly helping others. She volunteered at refugee centers and was an advocate for women's rights,” he said. “She always had an open ear and a shoulder to lean on.”Mohammed Imran Khan, 47, also known as Imran Bhai, was originally from India and was killed at the Linwood mosque, Stuff reported. He owned a restaurant, the Indian Grill, and two other Christchurch businesses. A post on the restaurant’s Facebook page the day after the attacks said it would be closed indefinitely.Mohamad Moosid Mohamedhosen, 54, a citizen of Mauritius, was killed at the Linwood mosque, the police said. Hamza Mustafa, 16, called his mother when the shooting began at Al Noor mosque, she told Stuff.“He said ‘Mum, there’s someone come into the mosque and he’s shooting us,’” Salwa Mustafa said. “I called ‘Hamza, Hamza,’ and I can hear his little voice and after that it was quiet.”Hamza Mustafa attended Cashmere High School, as did Sayyad Milne, another teenager killed in the attack. Khaled Mustafa, 44, Hamza Mustafa’s father, was also killed at Al Noor mosque. Radio New Zealand said the Mustafas were originally from war-ravaged Syria, and that they had moved to New Zealand from Jordan last year. Hamza’s 13-year-old brother Zaed was wounded.“Our lives have completely changed,” Ms. Mustafa told Stuff.Junaid Ismail, 36, was a Christchurch native who worked at the family business, a dairy, according to Radio New Zealand. He had a wife and three children. His twin brother, Zahid, survived the shooting.Abdelfattah Qasem, a 60-year-old Palestinian, worked in Kuwait for much of his life, Stuff reported. He moved to New Zealand with his family in the early 1990s, after the first Gulf War. A relative told Stuff that Mr. Qasem was “like an elder for the community,” known for helping newcomers to Christchurch. He had three daughters and was about to become a grandfather.Originally from Fiji, Ashraf Ali, 61, had lived in Christchurch for 17 years, Stuff reported. Ashraf Ali Razat, 58, was visiting New Zealand from Fiji when he was killed, according to Radio New Zealand. Mathullah Safi, 55, killed at Al Noor mosque, came to New Zealand from Afghanistan through India about nine years ago, Stuff reported. He was married with seven children. Hussein Al-Umari, 35, killed at Al Noor mosque, worked in the travel industry but had recently lost his job, his parents told Stuff. The family moved to New Zealand from the United Arab Emirates 22 years ago, according to the news site. Musa Vali Suleman Patel, 60, an imam in Fiji for about 25 years, had traveled to Australia and then New Zealand to spend time with children and friends, the Fiji Muslim League said in a statement.  He “served selflessly as an imam, teacher, mentor, and was much sought after as a powerful orator and speaker,” the organization said in a statement. He is survived by his wife and five children.Ashraf al-Masri had two young children and worked in a shop, according to Stuff. Police said he was 54 years old and a dual citizen of Egypt and New Zealand. Hussein Moustafa, 70, was originally from Egypt, according to Stuff. “He loved the mosque, he loved tidying it, he loved nourishing it and he was always a welcoming face there,” his daughter-in-law, Nada Tawfeek, told the news site. Mounir Soliman, 68, had been a design engineer and quality manager at Scotts Engineering in Christchurch since 1997, according to Stuff. He was a “lovely man,” said a spokeswoman for the company, Glenda Hillstead. He was married and had no children. Zeeshan Raza, 38, a mechanical engineer, moved to New Zealand last year from Karachi, Pakistan, Stuff reported. He and his parents were killed at the Linwood mosque. Mr. Raza’s father, Ghulam Hussain, was 66 years old. He and his wife, Karam Bibi, came to New Zealand last month to visit their son, Stuff reported. Ms. Bibi was 63, the police said. She and Mr. Hussain are survived by a daughter, according to Stuff.Abdukadir Elmi, 78, came to New Zealand with his family about 10 years ago, Stuff reported. In a Facebook post, his son, Said Abdukadir, said he was “a giant among his community,” generally known as Sheikh Abdukadir. “Kids would run to grab his chair when they hear the noise of his cane hitting against ground upon his entrance,” he wrote. He is survived by five sons, four daughters and his wife of nearly 50 years, according to Stuff.Mohsin Al Harbi, 63, had lived for 25 years in New Zealand, where he worked in water desalination. After the shooting, his wife, Manal, was hospitalized with a heart attack while searching for him, Stuff reported.Osama Adnan Youssef Kwaik, 37, was born in Gaza and raised in Egypt, according to Stuff. A civil engineer, he moved to Christchurch in 2017 and was in the process of applying for New Zealand citizenship. He had a wife and three children, one of whom was born in Christchurch.His older brother, Youssef Adnan Abu Kwaik, penned a tribute to Osama on Facebook, detailing how he thought Osama had found the safety and security he had desired in New Zealand.“From the first week, you sounded happy. Those Kiwi guys took you by surprise, didn’t they? I remember when you’d call me to tell me how they smile at you and your family,” he wrote. “It’s been a year and a half since you’ve moved my brother and your calls have started to include names of friends from work, neighbors and the community. You found the home you were looking for.”Mojammel Hoq, 30, moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh a few years ago and was studying in Christchurch, according to Radio New Zealand. Mohammed Omar Faruk, 36, was a welder who came to New Zealand from Bangladesh about two years ago, a friend told Stuff. His pregnant wife remained in Bangladesh, the friend said.Muhammed Abdusi Samad, 66, from Bangladesh, was a lecturer at Lincoln University who often led prayers at Al Noor mosque, Stuff reported.Muse Nur Awale, 77, had been living in Christchurch for about 30 years, Stuff reported. He was married and had no children.Ahmed Gamaluddin Abdel-Ghany, 68, emigrated from Egypt with his wife and son in 1996, Stuff reported. His son, Omar, called him “a great man with the purest of hearts” in an Instagram post. Zakaria Bhuiya was a welder originally from Bangladesh. He had recently married a woman from his home country and was waiting for a visa so she could join him in New Zealand, according to Reuters. Mr. Bhuiya worked for AMT Mechanical Services, which said in a statement that he had taken the day off to celebrate his 33rd birthday at the mosque. “Zakaria was a respected member of our team and a dear friend of ours,” the company said in a statement posted on a fund-raising page for Mr. Bhuiya’s wife. Jamie Tarabay, Damien Cave, Jon Hurdle and Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand. Meher Ahmad contributed reporting from Lahore, Pakistan.An earlier version of this article, relying on information from authorities in New Zealand, erroneously included an individual among the victims who were killed in the attack. That profile has been removed.Megan Specia is a story editor on the International Desk, specializing in digital storytelling and breaking news.  @meganspecia AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaABU DHABI — The message to the D.J. was short and to the point: no Arabic music.That was the edict from the organizers of the Asian Cup match here on Thursday, an attempt to limit even the opportunity for a flash point in the first soccer match between Saudi Arabia and Qatar since the start of a bitter political feud nearly two years ago. The dispute, and the Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, has so divided countries in the region that even the prematch music at the tournament is now viewed through that prism.At other matches at the Asian Cup, the most important soccer event on the sprawling continent, the soundtrack has included music from the participating countries. That was not the case Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium, where the sound system blasted western dance music in an effort to avoid even the risk of inflaming tensions between rival supporters.In the case of Qatar, that support was limited to a Korean woman, a male student from China and band of Omanis who arrived during the second half after acquiring free tickets. Almost no Qatari fans have traveled to the tournament amid the blockade of the tiny emirate by a Saudi-led group of its neighbors, including the United Arab Emirates, that has made travel extremely difficult — and entry into the U.A.E. close to impossible.In the end, in front of a stadium that was mostly empty — despite Saudi officials’ handing out free tickets and bussing in fans — Qatar was a comfortable 2-0 winner. The game was largely tension-free until Qatar’s exuberant on-field celebrations led to a minor skirmish with a despondent Saudi striker, one of few players from his team who did not head straight to the dressing room after the referee blew the final whistle.Coaches from both teams had tried to play down the political cloud that had hung over Thursday’s game since the teams were drawn into the same first-round group months ago. After the game, they steered a similar course, brushing aside any questions related to matters out of their control, and instead focusing on the challenges awaiting them in the knockout rounds. Qatar, which won the group, will face Iraq; Saudi Arabia faces a more difficult game against Japan, a regional power.“It has nothing to do with football so I won’t give a response,” Juan Antonio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach said in response to a question about the off-field tension. Félix Sánchez, Qatar’s Spanish coach, conceded only that hearing his team’s national anthem roundly jeered by most of the fans was a “difficult moment” for his players, but he concluded the game was played in a positive spirit on the field.Controversy flared outside the lines, however. Local organizers were said to have reacted with fury after a commentator on the Qatar-owned network beIN Sports mentioned the blockade during the live broadcast of an earlier Iran-Iraq game. In response, the Saudi Sports Media Federation released a statement Thursday accusing beIN, which is broadcasting the tournament across the Middle East, of using its exclusive rights to push its political agenda.The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, and that divide was visible in the stands. Behind the goal where Almoez Ali, the tournament’s top scorer, delivered the first of his two goals for Qatar, three men stood for the entire match, holding aloft two flags, one a Saudi one and the other Emirati, fused together.Saudi efforts to boost crowd numbers included commandeering two desks at the entrance of the Bab al Qasr hotel, situated yards from the U.A.E.’s presidential palace. There, officials armed with fist-sized stacks of tickets, distributed them for free to fans — whether Saudi or not — with only one request: Support Saudi Arabia.The efforts largely fell flat. The attendance was declared at just over 16,000, though the actual number of fans appeared far lower. Qatar had almost none: a Qatar soccer federation spokesman said as many as 2,000 fans would have made the trip in normal times. In the end, Qatar had to make do with a small and curious collection of followers that included Janko Yang, a 23-year-old Chinese student who grew fond of Qatar’s soccer team after its under-23 squad visited his hometown, Changzhou, last year.At the other end of the stadium, Mary Lee, the Korean communications worker who has become relatively well-known around the team, had somehow snagged a seat in the media area. Sporting a silk dress she had made in the maroon and white colors of Qatar’s flag — a direct challenge to rules that forbid public support of Qatar in the U.A.E. — Lee, 45, vowed to stay at the tournament until her adopted country completes its run. (Asked to change clothing by security officials before she attended the tournament opener between the U.A.E. and Bahrain, Lee has been given dispensation to wear her elaborate outfit only at Qatar’s games.)The most voluble support, though, came from the group of Omanis who had raced across the city after watching their team clinch berth in the knockout rounds with a 3-1 victory over Turkmenistan. Beneficiaries of the free Saudi tickets, they cheered Qatar’s players as they celebrated their victory. Oman has historically enjoyed a friendly relationship with all its neighbors, and has adopted a neutral role in the Gulf dispute.“We are like one country, we are one people in the Gulf, and we are cheering for them because they haven’t got fans here,” said Abdullah Moqubuli, 30, before adding that he and his friends would have cheered for Saudi Arabia, too, had the Saudis managed to score a goal.Sánchez, Qatar’s coach, acknowledged their contribution after the match.“We appreciated it and we want to thank them because it’s important to us to have also some people with the team,” he said. Qatar’s captain, Hassan al-Haydos, had a similar message for Yang, the Chinese student.“I’d like to thank him, and tell him to come to the next game,” al-Haydos said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken Belson and Kevin DraperThe N.F.L. owners worried about a protracted legal fight. They fretted over potentially embarrassing disclosures. They were concerned about further alienating fans and sponsors. So they took the unusual step of reaching a settlement rather than continue to battle an adversary who was viewed in some circles as a victim of the league’s sharp elbows.All of this happened nearly six years ago, when the league found it more expedient to pay hundreds of millions of dollars to retired players who contended the N.F.L. had concealed the dangers of repeated hits to the head. Among other things, the 2013 concussion settlement enabled the league to avoid the acute discomfort of battling in court with former players who had sustained neurological damage.In many ways, the N.F.L. followed this same road map on Friday when it announced that it had reached another settlement, this time with the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick and his former teammate Eric Reid. They had accused the owners of colluding to keep them out of the league because they had knelt during the playing of “The Star-Spangled Banner” at games, an action that prompted other players to do so as well.The N.F.L. has a reputation for using a scorched-earth legal strategy, and its decisions to settle in both cases have been viewed by some as admissions of guilt. In fact, the league did not acknowledge wrongdoing in the concussion settlement, and it is not clear what it may have admitted to in Friday’s settlement because of a confidentiality agreement between the two sides.Still, by settling each time, the owners may have calculated that they and many fans could then try to move past the contentious issues at the heart of the two cases — the long-term effects of repeated head trauma in the first instance, and the right of players to protest in the second instance.“There are broader issues than just money that the league considers,” said Matthew J. Mitten, the director of the National Sports Law Institute at Marquette University. “They need to take into account social issues and public perception.”The two cases, in some ways, are very different. One was a class-action lawsuit involving 20,000 retired players who sued in federal court, the other a grievance filed under the collective bargaining agreement. The league stood a chance of winning both cases, had it persisted, but each case generated years of negative publicity. So the league, which earns $14 billion a year, was in a position to spend money to make both cases go away.Significantly, the two settlements provide the league with a measure of protection, Mitten said. The concussion settlement precludes players in the future from suing the league for concussion-related damages, and the settlement with Kaepernick and Reid avoided any adverse precedent being set.Kaepernick had not played a down since the end of 2016, yet he continued to hover over the league. Every time a backup quarterback was signed, Kaepernick’s name was invoked, if only to ask why he remained out of the league.Mark Geragos, the lead attorney for Kaepernick and Reid, told CNN on Saturday that he thought Kaepernick would get a shot at an N.F.L. job now that the litigation was over.“I’ll make the bold prediction, and you can save the tape,” Geragos told the network. “I think you’re going to see within the next two weeks that somebody’s going to step up.” He added, “It would not surprise me if Bob Kraft makes a move,” referring to the owner of the New England Patriots, who just won their sixth Super Bowl title.Geragos also mentioned the Carolina Panthers, who signed Reid a few weeks into the 2018 season, as a potential landing spot for Kaepernick.Geragos, who has made similar predictions in the past, did not cite any sources to back up his assertions. A Patriots representative declined to comment, and the Panthers did not return a message requesting a response to Geragos’s remarks.Still, even off the field, Kaepernick has loomed large. Before the 2018 season began, Kaepernick persuaded the arbitrator in his case to dismiss the league’s attempts to throw out his grievance. Then he announced a lucrative endorsement deal with Nike, which provides uniforms to all 32 N.F.L. teams. To add to the owners’ discomfort, Nike also made Kaepernick a face of its “Just Do It” campaign, putting out a commercial narrated by him during the opening game of the season.“This has been a P.R. nightmare for the league, and in some sense, it’s remarkable that Kaepernick proved himself to be a larger public figure than the N.F.L. with his Nike deal,” said Michael LeRoy, who teaches sports law classes at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “He outshined the league in a very significant way.”The presence of Kaepernick, who rarely speaks in public, also hung over the Super Bowl this month. The basketball stars LeBron James and Kevin Durant were photographed wearing Kaepernick jerseys on Super Bowl weekend; the rapper Common tweeted a photograph of himself alongside the longtime activist Angela Davis, who was wearing a Kaepernick jersey; and the filmmaker Ava DuVernay said on Twitter that she was boycotting the Super Bowl in support of Kaepernick.Days before the game, the N.F.L. canceled its traditional news conference for the performers of the halftime show after reports emerged that several prominent musicians, in gestures of support for Kaepernick, had turned down a chance to take part in the show.The league also had to consider the arbitrator in Kaepernick’s case. Players file dozens of grievances every season, but most are resolved without becoming public. Kaepernick’s case, though, was being heard by Stephen B. Burbank, the arbitrator who ruled in August that Kaepernick’s lawyers had gathered enough evidence for the case to proceed.A University of Pennsylvania law professor and an expert in contract law, Burbank has worked as an arbitrator for the league since 2002 and has a reputation for independence. He began his law career as a clerk for Warren Burger, then the chief justice of the United States.One of his first tasks for Burger was to proofread the monumental United States v. Nixon ruling in 1974 in which President Nixon was ordered to turn over tape recordings and other materials in connection with the Watergate case. More than 40 years later, Burbank is wrestling with cases that may not be as historic but still carry plenty of significance.“He told me once the main qualification of the job is not having any skin in the game,” said Stephen Walters, a friend of Burbank’s who clerked with him on the Supreme Court. “He isn’t an N.F.L. fan of any sort, but he is the perfect guy for the job.”Kaepernick and the league could have been encouraged and worried by Burbank’s previous rulings as an arbitrator. Over the years, he has at times ruled for the players, as he did in a case involving miscategorized ticket revenue. He has also ruled for the league, as he did in a case involving the circumvention of the salary cap. And in a case involving revenue sharing, he ruled in part for the league and in part for the players.Reid filed his case in May, while he was a free agent and was drawing limited interest despite having just finished his best season statistically. The Panthers ultimately signed Reid to a one-year, $1.39 million contract after the third week of the 2018 season, and this week they gave him a more lucrative, three-year extension.Reid missed only three games before joining the Panthers, and Kaepernick has been out of the league for two seasons. In that sense, the potential monetary damages Reid could have won with a favorable ruling from the arbitrator were probably much less than Kaepernick could have won. In any case, he has settled, too, and the N.F.L. can try to move on.“The N.F.L. has so many other issues around player health and well-being, they need to remove all the other static,” said Jodi Balsam, a professor at Brooklyn Law School who worked as a lawyer for the N.F.L.It is worth recalling that during the recent Super Bowl in Atlanta, which took place less than two weeks before the league settled with Kaepernick and Reid, the N.F.L. invited  civil rights leaders to take part in the pregame coin toss. In doing so, the league was embracing pioneers who helped bring social change to the country, and particularly to the South. But some wondered whether the N.F.L. was also trying to counter the effect of Kaepernick, whose principled protest continued to resonate.Now the league has settled with Kaepernick and with Reid. Still, if the concussion case is any indicator, merely settling will not make the issues that Kaepernick raised simply go away. After all, nearly six years after the concussion settlement, the N.F.L. is still dogged by stories of former players in dire mental and physical health, and fears that football can cause brain damage have now reduced participation in youth football.In the end, settlements, no matter what is at stake, can go only so far.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Southall[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A New York City police union has been criticized for comparing a professional football player to an animal after the authorities said he punched a sergeant and refused to pay his cab fare in Queens.The union, the Sergeants’ Benevolent Association, on Saturday said on Twitter that Trevor Bates, a linebacker for the Detroit Lions, acted “beyond that of a wild animal.” The tweet drew outcry from people who believed the language used in the statement was inappropriate.Joo-Hyun Kang, the director of Communities United for Police Reform, a coalition of grass-root and civil liberties groups, called the union’s characterization of Mr. Bates “racist” and said it fit a pattern of union officials using racist language to target black people. She pointed out that just last week, the head of the city’s rank-and-file officers’ union referred to a 16-year-old sentenced for dragging a police officer outside a car, leaving him with critical injuries, as a “mutt.”“If the allegations against Bates, including not paying his cab fare are true, he should be held accountable. But the constant use by N.Y.P.D. unions of racist dog whistles to dehumanize and criminalize black communities must be condemned, and end,” she said.Mr. Bates, 25, had been arrested around 1:30 a.m. on Saturday after he refused to pay a $32 yellow-cab fare for a ride from Manhattan to his hotel near La Guardia Airport in Queens, according to a statement from the Queens district attorney’s office. The police at the 115th Precinct station in Jackson Heights were going to release him with a desk-appearance ticket for fare evasion. But Mr. Bates grew agitated as officers tried to fingerprint him, leading him to punch a sergeant in the face, the statement said.In its Twitter message, the union said officers used a Taser stun gun to subdue Mr. Bates, who ripped the prongs from his body.Mr. Bates was held on charges of assault, resisting arrest, theft of services and obstructing governmental administration. He could not be reached for comment on Sunday because he was admitted to a hospital to undergo a psychiatric evaluation. If convicted, Mr. Bates faces a sentence of up to seven years in prison.The sergeant, James O’Brien, suffered a concussion and required three stitches over his left eye, prosecutors said.Bob Quinn, the executive vice president and general manager of the Lions, said in a statement on Saturday that the team was aware of Mr. Bates’s arrest and was gathering more information. The team declined further comment on Sunday.The union president, Ed Mullins, called on the Lions to release Mr. Bates in a toned-down statement on Sunday, and said the charge of racism “is nonsense and an accusation probably designed to change the topic.”“Those making the accusations better do their homework as to facts and not a smear campaign,” he said.Criminal justice advocates have long said that comparing people to animals and labeling them as criminals has contributed to a national epidemic of wrongful convictions that overwhelmingly hurt racial minorities.The sergeants’ union’s post was the second time in less than a week that the police unions have used coarse language to describe black targets of their outrage.Last week, Patrick J. Lynch, the president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, which represents two-thirds of the city’s 36,000 officers, referred to Justin Murrell, 16, as a “mutt” after he was sentenced to four years in prison for dragging Detective Dalsh Veve in June 2017, nearly killing him. The term, which conventionally refers to mixed-breed dogs, is commonly used as a pejorative toward people of mixed racial descent.Loyda Colon, a co-director of the Justice Committee, a police-reform group, said in a statement that the rhetoric of the union leaders encourages an abusive culture where New Yorkers who aren’t white are treated “as animals or worse” by the police.“This is dangerous, divisive and encourages the abusive policing communities of color face daily,” said Colon, who added that their words are “all the more frightening” as white supremacy resurges in America.Mr. Bates, who is from Maine, was drafted by the Indianapolis Colts in 2016, and was on the New England Patriots’ Super Bowl LI winning team before signing with the Lions in 2018. His former college football coach at the University of Maine said the accusations appeared out of character for him, according to the Portland Press Herald.The Police Department declined to comment, and Mr. Bates’s mother and his agent did not return calls seeking comment.Follow Ashley Southall on Twitter: @AshleyAtTimesAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEagles 16, Bears 15By Ben ShpigelCHICAGO — Eleven months have elapsed since Philadelphia’s improbable Super Bowl title, and on Sunday it was ever more necessary to re-establish this interval as fact. The playoffs, again, had arrived, and there, again, was Nick Foles, reprising his role as the Eagles’ backup-turned-starter-turned-savior.So, to clarify for anyone squinting at their televisions and wondering how Foles managed to bend time and space: No, he did not actually depart one stadium in the Midwest after bewitching his opponent and then materialize in another to do the same — though such confusion would be understandable.Foles, and the Eagles, seem to inhabit a place untouched by the mayhem churning all around them. Their mojo has been so good for the last month that on Sunday they foiled the league’s most destructive defense with a go-ahead touchdown on fourth down and then watched a kick that would have doomed them clang first off the left upright and then bounce off the crossbar.The final score — Philadelphia 16, Chicago 15 — silenced the crowd at Soldier Field, which hosted its first playoff game in eight years, but not the occupants of the visitors’ sideline, who danced and shouted and swarmed the grass after Cody Parkey’s 43-yard attempt ricocheted to the ground, ushering the Eagles into a divisional-round matchup next Sunday afternoon at top-seeded New Orleans.When the Eagles’ locker room opened to the news media, music was blaring and some players were huddled, watching replays of the kick. Chris Long turned to his fellow defensive end Brandon Graham, sitting beside him, and said, “It’s a hard job being a kicker.” Graham said, “I know, boy.” Above the din, tight end Zach Ertz bellowed, “Club Dub,” referencing the dance party that raged after Bears victories this season, all 12 of them. No strobe lights pulsing in the home locker room Sunday, only the harsh glare of the cameras.“You can’t make this up,” Parkey said. “I feel terrible.”As Parkey’s kick sank to the earth, the Bears’ mascot, Staley Da Bear, perched beneath the crossbar, fell over. The camera panned to Chicago Coach Matt Nagy, who did not blink, his mouth agape.In retrospect, the Bears’ biggest blunder of the season came last week, when they beat the Vikings in the last week of the regular season. By winning in Minnesota — where the Eagles captured their first Super Bowl, it should be noted — the Bears granted Philadelphia’s entry into the postseason.Chicago’s reward, after going 12-4 to capture the N.F.C. North and the conference’s third seed, was to face the reigning champions, who barged into the playoffs by winning five of their final six games — the last three behind Foles, in relief, again, of an injured Carson Wentz. The Eagles have a quirky, if enviable, quarterback situation — the franchise star in Wentz and the beloved backup in Foles, who merely secured Philadelphia’s first football championship since 1960.Since ascending to the starting job in Week 15 at Los Angeles — where Wentz injured his knee last season — Foles, unlikely to return to Philadelphia next season, has approached every game knowing it could be his last in an Eagles uniform. He tamed the Rams, then the Texans and the Redskins, but had not yet encountered a defense as dominant as Chicago’s.Just how dominant? The Bears were the only team this season with more interceptions (27) than touchdown passes allowed (22).Even after Chicago added two more interceptions Sunday — after the first 25 minutes, he had been picked off more times than in his previous four playoff games combined — Foles remained at peace.“What I’ve learned on these stages,” Foles said, “is just how to calm myself in a chaotic moment.”He simplifies. He gazes at 10 players he trusts in the huddle. He calls the play. With 4 minutes 48 seconds remaining and trailing by 15-10, Philadelphia took over at its 40 and in the huddle Foles simplified, gazed, trusted — and found Alshon Jeffery for 15 yards. He guided the Eagles to the Bears’ 2, converting a third-and-9 to Jeffery, before three straight plays backfired.Before fourth-and-their-season, Coach Doug Pederson signaled timeout. Expecting the Bears to blitz, Pederson called a play that would move the pocket for Foles, who rolled to his right and sidearmed a toss to Golden Tate, who caught it on the goal line and spun into the end zone with 56 seconds left.The moment reminded Foles of his first playoff game with the Eagles, at home five years ago against New Orleans back in his first stint with Philadelphia. He threw a late go-ahead touchdown pass in that game — and then saw Darren Sproles, now his teammate, gash them with a long kickoff return that positioned the Saints for the winning field goal.And on Sunday, after Philadelphia missed the 2-point conversion, Foles, who completed 25 of 40 passes for 266 yards, watched Tarik Cohen ran back the ensuing kickoff 35 yards.“That definitely came into my mind a little bit,” Foles said of the New Orleans game.Mitch Trubisky, whose 22-yard touchdown pass to Allen Robinson with 9:04 left had put the Bears ahead by 15-10, directed the Bears to the Eagles’ 25, where Parkey measured his fourth attempt of the day. His travails this season have unnerved Bears fans, who sulked as he missed 10 kicks — seven field goals and three extra points.He drilled his initial try, but Philadelphia had called timeout before the kick to ice him. The second bounced off the yellow posts and onto the turf.When it was noted to Pederson at a news conference last week that Foles had not lost the last two Decembers (and beyond), Pederson banged the wooden lectern for, you know, luck. That was superfluous. He oversees a team that trampled favored New England in the Super Bowl, that has coalesced after a 48-7 defeat Nov. 18 in New Orleans, that outclassed the league’s top defense on the road.The same Eagles group that donned dog masks last postseason — at once lampooning their perceived underdog status and welcoming it — has birthed a new wearable gimmick: ski masks. As if robbers, they started stealing the ball. Then they started stealing wins. Then they stole a playoff berth. Then they stole victory from the Bears.Ask the Eagles, and they say are not done. They have been down a similar path before, and found a trophy at the end. New Orleans, beware.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy James Montague and Tariq PanjaThe pitch landed in an email inbox at the offices of Qatar’s World Cup bid at a crucial time in the summer of 2010, only months before FIFA would meet to pick the host of its quadrennial soccer championship.The sender was Cornerstone Global Associates, a little-known consulting firm based in London, and in the email the company’s president laid out a plan to assist Qatar — tiny, dusty, hot and, to many observers, ill-suited to host sports’ most-watched event — with its mounting public relations problems.The Qataris declined the offer, one of several that had arrived unsolicited that summer, and Cornerstone’s president moved on as well: For the next few years, he continued to offer support for the emirate and its World Cup on his active social media accounts.But the criticism of Qatar did not go away: Year after year, news reports assailed the emirate over whether it was suitable as a host for the World Cup, over the way it had won the vote and over its treatment of migrant workers. In October 2017, the tone of the coverage turned ominous when the BBC led reports on its website and news channel by warning darkly that there was “an increasing political risk that Qatar may not host the World Cup in 2022.”The article created a ripple of similar pieces in the British and international news media, all of them referring to the same report: “Qatar in Focus: Is the FIFA World Cup 2022 in Danger?” The report asserted that “Western diplomats have privately stated they do not know whether or not the tournament will take place as planned.”What was most intriguing, though, was not the report’s conclusions but its author: Cornerstone Global Associates.The 2022 World Cup will be the first one played in the Arab world, and it has been a hot-button issue in soccer since the moment Qatar won the hosting rights. But in the 19 months since Saudi Arabia and several other Arab nations began a punishing boycott of neighboring Qatar, the tournament has become something else: a proxy in the broader geopolitical dispute transfixing the Gulf. In that smaller sporting fight, the goal appears to be to scuttle the tournament or, failing that, to humble Qatar by forcing it to share the event with its political enemies.The dispute has added a new dimension to a specialized industry in which consultants and other insiders can earn millions of dollars for their efforts to shift public opinion in favor of the nations that finance them, or against those countries’ rivals. At times, that hidden work — exploiting the dark arts of leaked documents, whispered secrets and shifting allegiances — has drawn journalists, government officials and even President Trump into the fight. The intricacies of the campaigns are sometimes revealed only after information from one side or the other is leaked.When a trove of the emails of the United Arab Emirates’ ambassador to Washington was stolen and released in 2017, for example, it revealed a broad influence campaign financed by the U.A.E. that hoped to use American journalists and think tanks to reposition Qatar and its World Cup in a negative light. A year later, an article in Britain’s Sunday Times suggested that Qatar was just as adept at those kinds of shadow campaigns: The Times’s reporting showed that Qatar had hired an American public relations firm to disparage its 2022 rivals during its campaign to win the World Cup.The New York Times itself received several batches of documents from an anonymous source last year. Over a period of several months, the source, claiming to be someone close to Cornerstone who had become disillusioned with how soccer was being politicized, answered questions related to the disclosure over encrypted email. The Times was able to independently confirm some of the meetings and conversations described in the documents, which appear to fit the pattern of the Gulf’s continuing tit-for-tat information war.Viewed through that prism, Cornerstone’s about-face on Qatar in 2017, then, was hardly a surprise. The timing was important, though; Cornerstone’s anti-Qatar report, publicized by the BBC, was published only months after the start of the Saudi- and U.A.E.-led blockade of Qatar. The blockade is the result of a long-running political dispute between Qatar and several of its neighbors, who accuse it of financing terrorism and working too closely with Iran. But the breadth and specifics of the campaign to hamstring Qatar’s World Cup are laid out in documents that reveal close ties between Cornerstone Global Associates and individuals and companies in the U.A.E.One Cornerstone document outlines a plan to produce a report linking Qatar to the Muslim Brotherhood, and several others discuss efforts to place articles in the British news media that would damage Qatar’s reputation. Cornerstone’s success in providing some source material for the BBC report, for example, involved first cultivating a relationship with a long-term critic of the U.A.E.’s human rights record before asking him to write the skeptical report about Qatar’s World Cup. The critic, the journalist and activist Rori Donaghy, denied that Cornerstone had had any role in influencing or altering his conclusions, saying that the report was “solely by me, independent of anyone else.”But after the initial flurry of negative headlines, and after Cornerstone’s impartiality was called into question, the BBC changed the online version of the report to soften some of the allegations made by Cornerstone. A BBC spokesman said that it was standard practice to update articles throughout the day and that “there were no corrections to note.”Cornerstone’s president, Ghanem Nuseibeh, was hardly a neutral party in the Gulf dispute. Although he offered his help in burnishing Qatar’s reputation in 2010, Nuseibeh has close links to the U.A.E. elite: He is a relative of both the U.A.E.’s minister of state and the country’s ambassador to the United Nations.A keen social media user who had been generally supportive of Qatar’s efforts to bring the World Cup to the Middle East in the years that followed his initial pitch to the bid committee, by 2017 he had become a frequent Qatari critic and a backer of the blockade and the countries leading it.In an interview with The Times in London, Nuseibeh insisted that he had always favored a regional World Cup over one in Qatar and stressed that the personal views he shares on social media had not clouded the work in the reports Cornerstone produces, which he insisted was not financed by a third party. It is unclear who paid for the work focused on Qatar’s World Cup, but a close link between Cornerstone and the U.A.E. is laid out in documents seen by The Times — including one for a $1 million wire transfer in 2015 — and a client list published on the company’s website.One of Cornerstone’s most ambitious projects since the start of the Gulf blockade, crafted at the start of last year, involved pursuing an agreement between Cornerstone and Mike Holtzman, a prominent public relations executive who had worked with Qatar’s 2022 campaign, to disclose damaging information about the World Cup bid in exchange for a $1 million payment.“Mike contacted Ghanem after the BBC report saying that he has information about irregularities related to the Qatar FIFA bid that he is prepared to sell,” according to one Cornerstone document. “Mike explained that he no longer has work in Qatar and that he was not paid for some work he did, and he felt he was cheated.”Citing confidentiality agreements, Nuseibeh said he could not discuss details of any meetings he might have had. That included one in New York with Holtzman and a prominent libel lawyer, Paul Tweed, that was detailed in the documents.Tweed, who acknowledged that Cornerstone was a client, expressed “grave concerns” about the “unlawful accessing of data” that he believed had been “misinterpreted and taken totally out of context.” Holtzman refused to answer questions about his dealings with Cornerstone, citing his own confidentiality agreements.But several months after the New York meeting, Tweed arranged for Nuseibeh to meet with a British politician, Damian Collins. Collins, who had risen to prominence in the British news media by investigating accusations of wrongdoing in the World Cup bidding process in his role as chairman of a parliamentary committee, was a known critic of the Qatar World Cup. Collins confirmed that he had met with Nuseibeh last May.According to a summary of that meeting in a Cornerstone document, Nuseibeh and Tweed laid out to Collins the information that Holtzman had provided about Qatar, including his claim that Qatar’s 2022 bid had employed former C.I.A. operatives to try to undermine its main rivals for the hosting rights.Two months later, in July 2018, The Sunday Times published what it billed as a bombshell: “Exclusive: Qatar Sabotaged 2022 World Cup Rivals With ‘Black Ops.’” The article, which did not cite its source, revealed some of the topics related to Qatar’s World Cup bid that Holtzman had offered to deliver to Cornerstone. It is unclear if he was ever paid by Cornerstone or anyone else.Collins was quoted in the article, however, urging FIFA to investigate the accusations and to strip Qatar of the World Cup if they were true. “The ultimate sanction for breaking the rules,” Collins said, “would be the loss of the right to host the tournament.”Despite years of negative publicity, Qatar has managed to withstand every challenge to its hosting the World Cup. Construction continues on the eight stadiums it plans to use for the tournament; one has been completed and two more, including Lusail Stadium, which will host the opening ceremony and the final, are “almost complete,” according to the committee in charge of the project. But Qatar’s defense of the 2022 World Cup is far from over.Nuseibeh, the Cornerstone founder, continues to be a regular critic of the country on social media, and in an interview in November he hinted that more damaging revelations about Qatar could be forthcoming.“If everything I know was out in the media,” he said, “the media would have 365 days of reporting about this.”A more existential fight for the 2022 World Cup continues just out of view: FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, has voiced support for a proposal to expand the tournament to 48 teams from 32. The change is a key foreign policy aim of Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., but it would require not only the Qataris’ consent but also a humbling surrender of its crown jewel, since a 48-team event would be an almost insurmountable logistical challenge for Qatar this close to the tournament unless it agreed to share the hosting rights with its neighbors.Still, Infantino has enthusiastically sold the idea in his travels. In remarks at a meeting of the G20 leaders in Argentina late last year, he said hopefully, “In 2022, we could also experience a World Cup in Qatar as well as — why not? — some games in other countries of the Arabian Gulf.”But a shared World Cup isn’t the only idea being suggested. In the first week of January, a website in Northern Ireland published an article hailing the potential for a huge “economic windfall” for Britain if the 2022 World Cup were stripped from Qatar and moved to England instead.The article was based almost exclusively on a report compiled by a London-based strategy and management consultancy: Cornerstone Global Associates.An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to discussions involving Cornerstone and Mike Holtzman. While documents describe an effort to forge an agreement under which Holzman would provide damaging information about Qatar’s bid to host the 2022 World Cup, the documents do not show that an agreement was completed. (As the article noted elsewhere, it is unclear whether Holtzman was ever paid for his information by Cornerstone or anyone else.)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Bill PenningtonThere have been a host of terrific nicknames in football history, but has there ever been one better than Gronk?Yes, it’s simply the abbreviation of a last name, but in this case it seemed to symbolize the essence of the player: a no-nonsense syllable as forceful as a crunching block to seal the end on a sweep, as dynamic as a leaping touchdown grab over a hapless defender.Gronk even sounds whimsical or playful, which could not be more fitting.The man behind the nickname, New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski, announced his retirement on Sunday. At 6-foot-6 and nearly 270 pounds, he always seemed larger than life, but nine years in the N.F.L. will cut anyone down to size. After he had surgeries to his back, arm and knee, even a great nickname couldn’t save Gronk, who gingerly, and wisely, walked away weeks before his 30th birthday.Everyone from his teammates to the Patriots’ hierarchy hurriedly lobbed praise at one of the best tight ends to play the game. And a league lacking in colorful characters suddenly has one fewer.Wide receiver Julian Edelman referred to Gronkowski as, “the other goat” (as in, greatest of all time). Coach Bill Belichick celebrated Gronkowski’s “unmistakably positive energy.” Tom Brady, in an Instagram post directed at Gronkowski, said the Patriots were “almost unbeatable when you were on the field.”Indeed, Gronkowski transformed the position, an achievement that will one day make him a certain Hall of Fame inductee. It wasn’t just Gronkowski’s uncommon mix of size and speed; he played with an inimitable combination of acrobatic athleticism and reckless abandon.With Gronkowski scoring 79 touchdowns in his career, it’s hard to single out one that typified his style of play, but a 19-yard catch-and-run against the Kansas City Chiefs in 2011, Gronkowski’s second season, revealed the kind of mettle he brought to every snap.Lined up in the backfield, Gronkowski grabbed a 1-yard pass from Brady, then stormed up the right sideline, where he evaded three tacklers and vaulted toward the goal line. While in the air, a low hit flipped him upside down, but he still kept his forward momentum, landing precariously in the end zone on the back of his neck. Gronk wobbled to his feet, then performed his signature spiking of the football.The Patriots won 34-3.And then there were the off-the-field antics. He danced on the field and on concert stages, chugged beers thrown to him during victory parades, impishly mugged for cameras behind the back of President Obama when the Patriots were feted at the White House. There were television and movie appearances, major roles in pro wrestling extravaganzas, and party after party where Gronk always seemed to materialize in character as the eternal goofball.Along the way, Gronkowski’s colorful personality brought life to the button-down Patriots and N.F.L.That kind of energy will be hard to replace. With pun intended, today the N.F.L. feels a little deflated.Gronkowski’s retirement may also signal another beginning of the end for the Patriots’ ever-expanding reign. It always seems like folly to forecast the impending demise of the Brady-Belichick Patriots. But Gronkowski was unlike any other tight end, and he leaves a gaping hole for New England.It is true that the Patriots’ offense is notable for how it can morph week to week and season to season. Still, stellar tight end play has been a constant to Belichick’s success, and in Gronkowski, the coach had a weapon who could be a devastating blocker, a third-down possession receiver and a downfield threat mixed into one.Good luck finding another talent like that before Brady’s career concludes.Gronkowski’s unmatched value was on full display in his last football game, the Super Bowl against the Los Angeles Rams. The Patriots’ offense was hopelessly out of sync as drive after drive stalled short of scoring. To provide stability, New England turned to its running game, with Gronkowski’s punishing blocks often leading the way.Then, near the midpoint of the fourth quarter, with the game tied, the Patriots ran the same play three times in a row. It was primarily a pass play, but because Gronkowski was one of two tight ends in the huddle before each snap, the Rams had to defend the threat of a rushing attempt by leaving their base defense on the field. That meant one fewer defensive back to cover Gronkowski if he dashed downfield.Which is what happened. On the last of the three plays, Gronkowski shifted into the slot like a wide receiver and the Patriots had the mismatch they sought when Rams linebacker Cory Littleton trotted over — at the last second — to cover Gronkowski.As he had so many times before, Brady lofted a precise pass into a small opening in the defense and Gronkowski dove to make the catch inside the Rams’ 5-yard line.On the next play, Gronkowski sealed the left end with a powerful block on defensive end John Franklin-Myers, and running back Sony Michel dashed just off Gronkowski’s right hip for the go-ahead score in the Patriots’ 13-3 victory.Gronkowski briefly celebrated with teammates in the end zone after the score. Then he slowly, and somewhat laboriously, jogged off the field.About 20 minutes later, the Patriots were draped in confetti at midfield with music blaring along a makeshift stage. Belichick turned at one point and yelled, “Gronk!”Duly summoned, Gronkowski grinned at his coach, who smiled back and said: “You’re a hell of a player.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia Mazzei, Kevin Draper and Mark LeibovichJUPITER, Fla. — Robert K. Kraft, the billionaire owner of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots, was charged on Friday with two counts of soliciting sex as part of a wide-ranging investigation into prostitution and suspected human trafficking in South Florida.The charges against Mr. Kraft, 77, in Jupiter, Fla., came after the police used video surveillance to observe activity inside several day spas and massage parlors. The police said that the parlors had been used for prostitution and that many of the women involved were considered to be victims.The investigation involved several law enforcement agencies and resulted in raids and arrests connected to nearly a dozen businesses in the region. At least one person was charged with human trafficking; others, including several women, are accused of racketeering and money laundering. More than two dozen customers, men ranging in age from their 30s to at least one in his 80s, have been arrested; hundreds have been charged, the police said.A spokesman for Mr. Kraft and the Patriots released a statement, saying: “We categorically deny that Mr. Kraft engaged in any illegal activity. Because it is a judicial matter, we will not be commenting further.”Mr. Kraft is the most prominent name to emerge in the case, and the charges represent an embarrassing spectacle for a man who has become one of the most powerful owners in American sports. His Patriots have played in 10 Super Bowls since he bought the team, winning six times. He is a leading voice in the N.F.L.’s small fraternity of billionaire owners, a member of the committee that sets Commissioner Roger Goodell’s salary and a friend and political benefactor of President Trump.In addition, the legal problems may place Mr. Goodell in the uncomfortable position of having to mete out some kind of punishment for the personal conduct of a man who is essentially one of his bosses.The N.F.L.’s constitution gives Mr. Goodell broad authority to hold players and owners accountable for conduct he deems detrimental to the league. Previous punishments have included fines and suspensions, which prohibit owners from being at their team facilities or attending games.“The N.F.L. is aware of the ongoing law enforcement matter and will continue to monitor developments,” the league said in a statement.As the league commissioner in 1999, Paul Tagliabue fined Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., who owned the San Francisco 49ers, $1 million and suspended him for a season after he pleaded guilty for failing to report a felony arising from a gambling fraud and extortion case. More recently, Mr. Goodell suspended Jim Irsay, the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, who has battled substance abuse, for six games and fined him $500,000 after he pleaded guilty to driving while impaired.The case involving Mr. Kraft is more complicated. He has been charged with two misdemeanors, not felonies, and those charges may be reduced or dropped. But Mr. Goodell has long portrayed himself as the defender of the league’s reputation, and he has penalized players and owners for a host of offenses, some of which might have been little noticed years earlier.Mr. Kraft is accused of patronizing a spa in Jupiter called Orchids of Asia, a small storefront business in a strip mall that also includes a nail salon, a surf shop and a Thai restaurant. The police said Mr. Kraft had visited twice, dropped off by a driver. The mall, anchored on one end by an Outback Steakhouse, is near lushly landscaped gated communities, a half-dozen golf courses and the spring training home of the Miami Marlins and the St. Louis Cardinals.All of the sexual encounters that have resulted in charges were videotaped as part of the prostitution investigation, the police said. Investigators, who have been conducting surveillance of massage parlors in the area for six months, charged “nearly 200” people, though only a fraction have been arrested so far.For years, Mr. Kraft has been considered a kind of first among equals in the ranks of the 32 N.F.L. owners. He has led the league’s powerful broadcast and finance committees and has often touted his status as a confidant to Mr. Goodell. Within owner and executive circles, he is known as “the assistant commissioner,” with no small hint of resentment.Mr. Kraft had fashioned himself as a kind of ordinary Patriots fan who in the 1970s sat with his sons in the frigid bleachers of Section 217 of what was originally called Schaefer Stadium. He made his fortune in the paper and packaging business and purchased the land adjacent to the stadium complex in the 1980s, and eventually bought the stadium itself.That positioned Mr. Kraft to buy the Patriots in 1994 after James Orthwein put the team up for sale. Other bidders included Stan Kroenke, the current owner of the Los Angeles Rams, and Mr. Trump, at the time a businessman and the former owner of the New Jersey Generals of the United States Football League.Mr. Kraft paid $172 million for the Patriots, the highest price paid for an N.F.L. team at the time. His public identification with the Patriots, the N.F.L.’s pre-eminent 21st century dynasty, has given Mr. Kraft entree into a world of celebrity friends, beautiful young women, Hollywood award spectacles and high-roller events.The team won its sixth Super Bowl title on Feb. 3, defeating the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, in Atlanta. The team has sold out every regular-season and exhibition game since 1994 and sits near the top of the league in revenue. Mr. Kraft attended the N.B.A. All-Star Game festivities last weekend in Charlotte, N.C., where he hobnobbed courtside with LeBron James while wearing a diamond “Championships” necklace that the rapper Meek Mill had given him at a Super Bowl after-party.In 2017, Mr. Kraft attended a private dinner with Mr. Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s club in Palm Beach, Fla.Friends said Mr. Kraft was set adrift after the death from cancer of Myra Kraft, his wife of nearly five decades, in 2011.“I cried myself to sleep every night for a year after my wife died, until I met my girlfriend,” Mr. Kraft said in a 2017 interview. The girlfriend was Ricki Noel Lander, an actress and dancer who then was in her early 30s and whom Mr. Kraft has been dating off and on since.While Mr. Kraft lives in Massachusetts, he has owned property in Palm Beach, Fla., for a number of years.By early Friday afternoon, the Orchids of Asia day spa had become an impromptu tourist attraction, drawing onlookers who peered into its darkened glass facade and posed for pictures in front of the closed business. An orange sign posted on the door by the town’s building department and dated Tuesday, reading “DANGER,” warned that occupying the unit was prohibited.Linda Perry of Jupiter Island said she had been driving into the neighborhood for lunch when news of Mr. Kraft’s arrest broke.“I looked it up and we decided to come here,” she said. “It’s just so mind-boggling.”An affidavit of probable cause filed by the Jupiter police laid out how the men had come to be charged for what went on inside the spa.Acting on a tip from law enforcement personnel in nearby Martin County last summer, the police began their investigation by searching online reviews for the business, several of which used a slang term for a sex act that was available to male customers. After conducting 24-hour video surveillance in November, the police noticed that only male clients had entered, despite the spa’s advertising some services primarily used by women.A Florida Department of Health investigator inspected the business on behalf of the police and noticed several indications that women were living there, including beds, dressers with personal items and a refrigerator containing food and condiments.One day in January, the police stopped men leaving the spa in their vehicles. At the roadside, the men told police officers that they had taken part in sex acts during their visits. Using that information, the police obtained a search warrant allowing them to monitor and record conduct inside the spa on video. For five days, starting on Jan. 18, the police monitored the video, and they said they had observed more than 20 men receiving manual or oral stimulation during massage sessions. In none of the instances, the police said, did they observe sexual intercourse.At Goodfella’s Pizza several doors down, the owner, Joseph Bompartito, said he had been working late waiting for a delivery on Jan. 17 when, at about 11:30 p.m., a swarm of police cars pulled up to the mall and evacuated the massage parlor, claiming there was a suspicious package and a possible bomb threat. But officers did not evacuate any other businesses in the strip mall, which made Mr. Bompartito suspect that something unlawful was going on at the massage parlor. Now, he said, he thinks that was when the police might have planted video cameras inside, a conclusion backed up by the police timeline released on Friday.“If it was a real bomb scare, why wouldn’t they have evacuated the rest of the mall?” he said.Mr. Bompartito, who moved to South Florida from Philadelphia seven months ago, said that around the time of the purported bomb scare, he saw young women leave the massage parlor around lunchtime every day and walk around the mall, without talking to anyone or eating anything. He had worked next door to a day spa in Philadelphia that had been raided by the police and sensed something was wrong here, too.“They looked malnourished,” he said of the women from Orchids of Asia. “One I even offered a slice of pizza to. She wouldn’t even say hi, wouldn’t even say thank you. Just kept her head down.”On Tuesday, one of the women he recognized was taken away by the police in handcuffs, he said.Patricia Mazzei reported from Jupiter, Kevin Draper from New York, and Mark Leibovich from Washington. Ken Belson contributed reporting from Orlando, Fla., and Victor Mather from New York. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperATLANTA — The Super Bowl is a bonanza for brands, advertisers and influencers. The prospect of attaching even the most unrelated product to the biggest television spectacle of the year means marketers are out hawking massage chairs, avocados and social media apps as somehow the perfect Super Bowl #content.You might not see any of this in the slew of commercials during CBS’s broadcast of Sunday’s game; the network expects to earn $500 million on game day from the $5 million or more advertisers are paying for 30-second spots.Instead, the truly nonsensical advertising dies in the inboxes of the reporters it is mass emailed to.Until now. Here is a sampling of what we are pitched.Names have been withheld to protect the innocent — and to avoid being hit up again.“Outfit your living room with [$4,000 massage chair] and you can tune into the game in complete relaxation — it’s the ultimate lounge chair upgrade.”My couch cost way less, and is pretty dang comfortable. Also, is a massage chair really the best place to watch the Super Bowl? You’ll be drinking beer, eating snacks and hopefully jumping out of your seat at the great plays; does Cheetos dust ruin massage chairs?“These are just two ways [advertising company] is creating memorable experiences at one at one of the world’s largest sports events to engage and influence consumers without breaking the bank.”This isn’t even a pitch to cover the jeans company and meat company that are hosting “activations” at the Super Bowl, which would at least make a little bit of sense. No, it is a pitch to cover the “integrated marketing agency” behind these two companies.I don’t know what any of those words mean, either.“[Company] is launching [product] for your guac dips! No more browning! FIELD GOAL!”In the interest of transparency, there is also a football emoji at the end of this subject line.A lot of snack-related products are pitched around the Super Bowl, which makes plenty of sense. Now I’m not a food writer, but I am a Californian and feel as if I have a certain amount of guacamole expertise. Browning is not a problem! For one, guacamole never remains uneaten for more than about five minutes. But if you’re really concerned, squeeze a bit of citrus and leave the pit in the guacamole. Problem solved. Field goal!“But what could be more interesting than the Super Bowl? Video games — that’s what.”I like video games, but they aren’t more interesting than the Super Bowl.“Tigers saved from circuses in Guatemala by [nonprofit] are having a ball in the buildup to Super Bowl LIII this Sunday.”There is some video of tigers in this email and it is very cute, at least as cute as animals that can rip your head off can be. This is a strange, derivative pitch; it’s almost like a wild cat version of the Puppy Bowl, which is also cute and also has nothing to actually do with the Super Bowl except that it’s on television the same day.“As you are planning your Super Bowl coverage, I wanted to let you know that (author of book) is available for interviews next week in DC and NYC.”In this publicist’s defense, this author is quite knowledgeable and his book is very interesting and relevant to the Super Bowl. How do I know this? Because this author is a New York Times employee. I sat next to him in the auxiliary press box at the Super Bowl last year. I think I can get ahold of him if need be.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBoth teams traded touchdowns early, but the Tigers’ offense, led by two true freshmen, soon took over and buried Alabama.By Benjamin HoffmanHere’s how Clemson beat Alabama, 44-16, in the national championship game, drive by drive:Clemson got the ball first but the Tigers went absolutely nowhere, gaining 3 yards before settling for a punt. Trevor Lawrence, Clemson’s freshman quarterback, threw a pair of incompletions on the drive, with his attempt to Hunter Renfrow on 3rd-and-7 sailing well out of the wide receiver’s reach.Alabama now takes over looking to get something started.In a shocking turn of events, Alabama looked to be moving the ball early in its first drive but A.J. Terrell stepped in front of Tua Tagovailoa’s third pass of the game, intercepting and returning it 44 yards for a touchdown.Before the interception, Tagovailoa had started the game 2 for 2 for 20 yards with a picture-perfect 12-yard pass to DeVonta Smith that had gotten the Crimson Tide a first down.Tua Tagovailoa did not show any ill effects of his pick-six on the previous drive, connecting with Jerry Jeudy for a thrilling 62-yard touchdown pass with nearly 50 of it coming in the air on a perfect pass from the Heisman Trophy runner-up.With the extra-point, the game is now tied 7-7, with only 1:15 of clock time elapsing between the two scores.Damien Harris got the drive started with a 3-yard run and then picked up a first down with a 10-yard scamper.With the run established, Tagovailoa dropped back and let one rip to his sophomore wide receiver who had 1,176 yards and 13 touchdowns this season.In a wild start to this game, Clemson answered Alabama’s score with a 75-yard drive that took just four plays and 1 minutes 30 seconds, with Travis Etienne punching the ball into the end zone from 17 yards out, running right through Alabama’s vaunted defense.The Tigers now lead, 14-7.Clemson started its second offensive drive with Trevor Lawrence’s third incompletion of the game. On second down he connected with Justin Ross, but had that completion wiped away by a tripping penalty on John Simpson, an offensive lineman.An 8-yard pass to Trevion Thompson served as Lawrence’s first official completion of the day, but it was the follow-up that showed how special Lawrence can be. On 3rd-and-14, with a punt seeming likely, Lawrence found Tee Higgins for a 62-yard catch-and-run that put Alabama squarely on its heels.On the next play Etienne, who finished seventh in Heisman voting, got his team the lead, rushing to his left and bowling his way into the end zone.Najee Harris put Alabama on the goal line and Tua Tagovailoa executed a nice play-action fake to set up a 1-yard touchdown pass to Hale Hentges.Unfortunately for the Crimson Tide, who have struggled with extra-points all season, Joseph Bulovas had his attempt hit the upright and fall back onto the field, which left Alabama trailing 14-13.Alabama had started its drive with a 7-yard run by Josh Jacobs and then lost a yard on a screen pass to Irv Smith thanks to a terrific tackle by K’von Wallace.Once again, Tagovailoa responded well to pressure, with his third down pass to DeVonta Smith connecting for 15 yards and a first down.An 11-yard pass to DeVonta Smith gave Alabama another first down and that let Tagovailoa be aggressive, throwing deep to Irv Smith for a 21-yard gain.Alabama gave the ball to Najee Harris, a sophomore who averaged 6.7 yards a carry this season, and let the speedster take them 20 yards on three runs, with the third one initially being ruled a touchdown before it was determined that he was down at the one-half-yard line.Tagovailoa then faked a handoff and found Hentges wide-open in the end zone for the score.Marc Tracy: Clemson’s Dabo Swinney ran way out onto the field yelling for a holding call on that 9-yard Alabama run that set up the touchdown, and then kept yelling at the sideline judge nearest him. He’s a passionate guy but we rarely see him that irate.A drive finally ended without any scoring.Trevor Lawrence had his first pass of the drive broken up with a nice defensive play, and then Travis Etienne, on a run up the middle, was wrapped up by a pack led by Quinnen Williams for a 4-yard loss.Another pass attempt to Hunter Renfrow fell incomplete and Clemson was forced to punt.Just 42 seconds into the second quarter, Alabama took a 16-14 lead with a 25-yard field goal from Joseph Bulovas.Alabama had started the drive on its own 48-yard line and immediately began picking up yardage in huge chunks.Tua Tagovailoa connected with Jerry Jeudy for a 12-yard reception, Najee Harris raced up the middle for 13 yards and then Tagovailoa found Jeudy again, once again for 12 yards.Damien Harris ran three times for 9 yards, and then on 4th-and-1 from Clemson’s 6-yard line, Alabama rolled the dice by having Joshua Jacobs come in at running back. Their top touchdown scorer on the ground plowed his way to the 2-yard line.Williams then returned, running it up the middle, but was swallowed up at the 1-yard line.A false-start penalty backed the Crimson Tide up to the 6-yard line, and while Tagovailoa got them back to the 3 with a short pass to Henry Ruggs, a shovel pass to Williams proved fruitless when Clemson sniffed it out immediately, with Austin Bryant wrapping Williams up for a loss.That sent out Bulovas for the field goal attempt and his kick, which was low and to the right, did just make it through the uprights, helping make up for his failed extra point.Clemson needed just six plays to take the lead back, with Travis Etienne running the ball in from the 1-yard line.Clemson started the drive by getting a quick 15 yards thanks to a pass-interference call against Alabama’s Saivion Smith.A screen pass to Tavien Feaster looked like it might go for negative yardage, but Feaster made a few nice moves and then raced for a 26-yard gain.Trevor Lawrence tried to scramble on first down and while he got 1 yard, he paid for it by being wrenched awkwardly to the ground by his shoulders and head.Feaster ran the ball for 4 yards and then Lawrence recovered nicely from the big hit with a 14-yard connection with Tee Higgins.With a 1st-and-goal from Alabama’s 5-yard line, Etienne got the Tigers to the 1 with a nice second-effort on a run in which he used a second effort to nearly power his way through a crowd and into the end zone.Etienne’s next run was nowhere near as dramatic — he ran the ball in without being touched.Alabama was rewarded for boldness on a 4th down run, but a deep pass by Tua Tagovailoa later in the drive proved too large of a risk, as the quarterback threw his second interception of the day.Alabama’s offense had started things off with three runs by Josh Jacobs for a combined 9 yards, with the big running back just barely falling shy of picking up a first down. Despite being at their own 35-yard line, the Crimson Tide went for it on 4th-and-1 and Jacobs fought his way through the line for a 3-yard gain and a first down.Jacobs ran two more times for a combined 19 yards, and the new set of downs may have emboldened Tagovailoa, who threw deep, but well beyond the reach of any of his receivers, with the ball settling easily into Trayvon Mullen’s hands for the interception.The Tigers took advantage of Tua Tagovailoa’s mistake, marching 47 yards on eight plays, with Travis Etienne scoring a 5-yard touchdown on a shovel pass from Trevor Lawrence, which along with the extra point has Clemson up 28-16.Clemson started small, with a short run by Etienne, a few short passes from Lawrence to Hunter Renfrow and then a 3-yard pass from Lawrence to Tavien Feaster.Lawrence then opened things up with a pass to a streaking Amari Rodgers, who managed a 26-yard catch-and-run that got Clemson all the way to Alabama’s 5-yard line.A first-down run by Etienne went nowhere, but Lawrence executed a nice fake, looking like he was dropping back to pass before flipping the ball forward to Etienne who dove into the end zone.Etienne is up to three touchdowns (two rushing, one receiving).Marc Tracy: If this score holds, Alabama will enter halftime with a 12-point deficit. In last year’s title game, they entered halftime with a 13-point deficit — prompting Nick Saban to switch quarterbacks. Could we possibly see that again?Clemson had gotten the ball back quickly thanks to Alabama’s offensive possession being short-circuited on a 3rd-and-6 play at the Crimson Tide’s 45-yard line in which Clemson’s Trayvon Mullen, who had intercepted Tua Tagovailoa on the previous drive, raced in on a blitz and sacked Tagovailoa for an 11-yard loss.That defensive play, in which Mullen punched the ball out of Tagovailoa’s hands — Alabama recovered — resulted in the Crimson Tide punting.On the resulting possession, Clemson was nowhere near as sharp, with Lawrence throwing a pair of ugly incompletions at the end, but Huegel’s field goal stretched their lead to 15 points.That was not the start to the second half that the Crimson Tide wanted.After Alabama’s drive stalled out at Clemson’s 22-yard line, the defending champions lined up for a field-goal, but their ruse, in which they attempted to run for it on 4th-and-6, went nowhere, as the Tigers had the fake pegged from the start. Clemson swarmed Mac Jones and knocked him backward for a 2-yard loss and a turnover on downs.Things are starting to get ugly for Alabama.Clemson’s first two plays of the second half went for a combined 2 yards, but on 3rd-and-8, Trevor Lawrence found a wide-open Justyn Ross, who was able to cut around a defender before going off to the races for a 74-yard touchdown reception.The touchdown has stretched Clemson’s lead to 37-16.The thrilling touchdown by Ross was set up at the line scrimmage when Alabama’s Saivion Smith had tried to jam the wide receiver but immediately hit the turf with an injury. With Ross largely uncovered there was nothing Alabama could do to slow him down.Smith had to be carted off the field, which delayed the extra-point attempt, which Greg Huegel missed.Alabama’s offense was once again stopped in its tracks.The Tide’s drive once again started a drive with a Najee Harris run, which went for 11 yards, but playing with a 21-point deficit the Tide knew they would have to pass and Tua Tagovailoa threw a nice ball up the middle for a 23-yard gain by DeVonta Smith.Harris was knocked back for no gain on a run, and then Tagovailoa rolled out to find the running back Josh Jacobs for a 16-yard catch in traffic.A 6-yard pass to Jaylen Waddle, and two incompletions (one of which appeared to have a missed pass interference call) set up a 4th-and-14 from Clemson’s 14-yard line, and Tagovailoa, under heavy pressure, tried to run for a first down but fell just short for a turnover on downs.Clemson’s offense is out of control.After Trevor Lawrence hit Tee Higgins in the end zone for a 5-yard score, the Tigers are up 44-16 with 21 seconds left in the third quarter.Clemson’s first few plays of the drive had been fairly conservative, but on 3rd-and-12, Lawrence opened things up, throwing deep over the shoulder of Justyn Ross for a 37-yard gain and a first down.It briefly looked like Alabama had recovered a fumble later in the drive, but a review by the officials gave the ball back to Clemson with a 3rd-and-9 from Alabama’s 37-yard line. Lawrence took full advantage, picking up a first down with a nice 17-yard pass to Ross which the receiver pulled in with just his right hand before finding a way to get a foot down before falling out of bounds.Travis Etienne pushed the ball all the way to Alabama’s 9-yard line with a run up the left sideline, but two subsequent runs went nowhereUndeterred, Lawrence threw an absolute bullet into the end zone to Higgins, stretching his team’s lead.Marc Tracy: They are playing “Sweet Home, Alabama” while a Crimson Tide video highlight package plays in the stadium right now. Not optimal timing!Alabama simply does not have what it takes to compete with Clemson today.Tua Tagovailoa repeatedly threw aggressively downfield, and he connected with Jerry Jeudy for an impressive 48-yard completion, and the team found itself in the red zone, but they couldn’t do anything with it.A series of runs left them with a 4th-and-goal from the 2-yard line and a planned run for Tagovailoa was knocked back for a 7-yard loss and a turnover on downs.After the quarterback hit the turf, Clemson players immediately began celebrating on the field, knowing they have likely clinched a championship despite the game still having 12 minutes left to play.John Branch: With so much worry in the Bay Area over whether the game would sell out (it did, officials said), no one could have predicted what the stands at Levi’s Stadium would look like midway through the fourth quarter. Clemson fans, bedecked in orange, did not move, cheering and anticipating the trophy presentation. But Alabama fans flooded out, having seen enough. They left behind a bit of a camouflaged disguise, because the seats at Levi’s Stadium are crimson, too.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeThere are a multitude of ways to lose money in sports, and historically one of the most dependable ways is to start a professional football league. Charlie Ebersol knows this better than most. He had a front-row seat when his father, Dick, the longtime NBC executive, was a partner with the XFL for its only season in 2001.Still, Charlie Ebersol, a co-founder of yet another new league, the Alliance of American Football, is bullish on his chances to beat the market. And he argues that timing and technology are on his side this time.The A.A.F.’s 10-week season opens Saturday and ends before the N.F.L. draft. This is by design, Ebersol said.“It would be an act of insanity to try to compete with the N.F.L.,” he conceded.Instead, Ebersol intends to fill a post-Super Bowl vacuum and feed a viewing audience that he and his partners believe has an insatiable appetite for football.“Two hundred million watch college and pro football compared to the 130 million combined that watch the other major sports,” Ebersol said. “We don’t need to get all of those football fans to tune back in, but I like our chances of getting a significant chunk of them.”To do so, the A.A.F. is working to make its games easy to find. In addition to a deal to place some of its games on the NFL Network, the A.A.F. has agreements with CBS Sports’s networks, TNT and Turner’s B/R Live streaming service.But the A.A.F. business plan goes beyond football and television; it is hoping to land in a right-place-right-time moment in which sports betting is now legal and expanding in the United States. Eight states already offer gambling on sports contests, and by next year, sports betting could be legal in at least a dozen more.Anticipating and embracing interest from serious and casual gamblers, the A.A.F. has invested heavily in the technology and platforms that can provide data in a blink of an eye, all in the hope of transforming a minor league football broadcast into an interactive experience. Among the A.A.F.’s early investors were venture capital firms like Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund, media companies like the Chernin Group and the gambling and entertainment powerhouse MGM Resorts International.MGM executives said they were most taken by the A.A.F.’s app, which can provide a host of data in milliseconds. The information arrives so fast, in fact, that the league and its partners said it could eventually allow in-game betting on play outcomes — like pass or run — and a host of other propositions.“It’s a technology play,” Scott Butera, MGM’s president for interactive gaming, said of the A.A.F. “These specialty leagues will be relevant to sports betting. We think what they are doing is portable to other sports in terms of streaming, watching and making it an entertaining customer experience.”Ultimately, however, the A.A.F. will be judged by the quality of its football. To that end, a founder of the league, Bill Polian, a former general manager of the Buffalo Bills and a Pro Football Hall of Famer, has put together a league office of seasoned football people, including the former N.F.L. players Hines Ward and Troy Polamalu. The league owns all eight of the teams and has installed big-name veteran coaches — Steve Spurrier, Mike Singletary, Dennis Erickson, Mike Martz — in cities like Orlando, Memphis, Salt Lake City and San Diego.The league will lean on some gimmicks: There will be no kickoffs (teams will start on their 25-yard line instead) and no point-after kicks (only 2-point conversions allowed). And a so-called sky judge will keep watch over the action, empowered to correct officiating errors immediately.But some other innovations — no TV timeouts; completing games in two and a half hours; tickets priced no higher than $50; three-year, $250,000 contracts to hundreds of players — have raised questions about the league’s long-term economic viability.“There’s always been a belief that there’s room for spring football because of the game’s popularity,” said John Kosner, a longtime ESPN executive who now runs his own company, Kosner Media. The problem, he noted, is “no one has pulled this off before, so it’s not trivial what they are trying to do.”Kosner said the A.A.F.’s timing — just as sports betting tries to move into the mainstream of American culture — is fortuitous, since the amount of energy and venture capital investment available in sports right now is “unparalleled in my career.” He also suggested that Ebersol’s experience as a television and film producer would come in handy.“Charlie is smart, organized and patient, and best of all, he is a good storyteller,” Kosner said. “He can make the fans care about the game.”Seventy percent of the players signed so far have played in the N.F.L. in the past 18 months, a group that includes quarterback Aaron Murray (Atlanta Legends) and running back Trent Richardson (Birmingham Iron). All have been signed to a three-year base deal that includes not only the $250,000 salary but also what the league calls engagement bonuses. Those are based in part on their contributions to the community.And because the season is so short, all will be free to go to camp and sign with N.F.L. teams.“We are not trying to be sexy,” Ebersol said. “We just need to block and tackle on the field as well as off it.”For now, he is preaching patience.“This is going to take five to seven years, and there’s going to be empty seats at first,” Ebersol said. “I caution everyone that this is not going to be an overnight success. But we will succeed.”Follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrape.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe most recent, less than Super Bowl notwithstanding, the N.F.L. continues to be a behemoth, dominating the sports landscape in revenue, attendance and television ratings.That popularity has over the years tempted entrepreneurs to try to cash in by starting professional football leagues of their own. The latest effort is the Alliance of American Football, which plays its first games on Saturday.There have been plenty of pretenders to the N.F.L.’s crown over the years. None have succeeded, but all had their share of novelty.Season July to DecemberWeird rules A touchdown was worth seven points; teams could then go for a conversion from scrimmage for one more “action point.” No sudden-death overtime; a full 15-minute quarter was played. No preseason.Champion Birmingham AmericansOdd team names The Hawaiians (Honolulu), Charlotte Hornets, Memphis Grizzlies, Shreveport SteamerBig-name owner John B. Kelly Jr. (Princess Grace’s brother) of the Philadelphia BellBig-name coaches Jack Pardee, Florida Blazers; John McVay, Memphis SouthmenBig-name players Ken Stabler, Birmingham; Bill Bergey, Florida; Larry Csonka and Jim Kiick, MemphisUnlikely city Shreveport, La.Strange occurrence A restraining order was served on defensive lineman John Matuszak by his N.F.L. team, the Houston Oilers, in the middle of a game, forcing him to stop playing for the Houston Texans.TV The syndicated TVS networkThe Times said: “The dye on the footballs may still be wet and the players may not he able to keep dry in the stifling heat, but the World Football League brings midweek, midsummer football to the nation’s sports life tonight.”Legacy Gave a start to Coach Marty Schottenheimer; broke ground for professional football in the South.Season March to JulyWeird rules Allowed 2-point conversion (later adopted by the N.F.L.)Champions Michigan Panthers, Philadelphia Stars, Baltimore StarsOdd team name Pittsburgh MaulersBig-name owner Donald J. Trump, New Jersey GeneralsBig-name coaches George Allen, Chicago Blitz; Marv Levy, Chicago; Jim Mora, Philadelphia and BaltimoreBig-name players Herschel Walker, New Jersey; Reggie White, Memphis Showboats; Jim Kelly, Houston Gamblers; Steve Young, Los Angeles ExpressUnlikely city Tulsa, Okla.Strange occurrence The Chicago Blitz was traded in its entirety — players, coaches and assets — for the Arizona Wranglers.TV ABC and ESPNThe Times said: “Yesterday’s opening of the U.S.F.L. season occurred only five weeks after Super Bowl XVII, meaning pro football now exists for 11 months. It’s as if another baseball league was formed with a season that opened in December.”Legacy Introduced instant replay for officials’ rulings; won antitrust lawsuit against the N.F.L. but was awarded only $3 in damages.Season February to AprilWeird rules Players could have nicknames on their jerseys; two players raced for the football to determine opening possession; no fair catches.Champion Los Angeles XtremeOdd team names New York/New Jersey Hitmen, Memphis ManiaxBig-name owner All teams owned by World Wrestling Federation and NBCBig-name coaches Ron Meyer, Chicago Enforcers; Al Luginbill, Los AngelesBig name players Rod “He Hate Me” Smart, Las Vegas Outlaws; Rashaan Salaam, MemphisStrange occurrence A double overtime game caused “Saturday Night Live” to be delayed by 45 minutes, infuriating the producer Lorne Michaels. Subsequently, NBC cut away from the games at 11 p.m. even if they were not over.TV NBCThe Times said: “Like a blight that has crept from the low-rent fringes of cable to network prime time, the XFL mingles violence, voyeurism and even politics into one trashy Saturday night show.”Legacy Unusual camera angles, including Skycam; a return planned for next year.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Blitzes limited to six players; single-bar face mask permitted.Champions Las Vegas Locomotives (three times), Virginia DestroyersOdd team name Florida TuskersBig-name owners Mark Cuban was an investor. Joe Theismann, Florida.Big-name coaches Jerry Glanville, Hartford Colonials; Jim Fassel, Las Vegas; Jay Gruden, FloridaBig-name players Brooks Bollinger, Florida; Graham Gano, Las Vegas; Maurice Clarett, Omaha Nighthawks; John David Washington, Denzel’s son, Sacramento Mountain LionsUnlikely city Virginia BeachStrange occurrence The “New York” Sentinels played one home game in Hartford, one in New Jersey and one on Long Island.TV Versus and CBS Sports NetworkThe Times said: “Reports of the U.F.L.’s impending death have been around as long as the league.”Legacy Had female officials, including Sarah Thomas, who is now in the N.F.L.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Kicks taken from wider hash mark; extra points from 35 yards.Champions Brooklyn BoltsOdd team names Florida Blacktips, Hudson Valley FortBig-name owner Teams were owned by the league.Big-name coach Terry Shea, maybe? (a former N.F.L. quarterbacks coach and Rutgers head coach)Big-name player Josh Freeman, BrooklynUnlikely city Fishkill, N.Y.Strange occurrence The Florida Blacktips were a traveling team that had no home stadium. The 2014 championship game was canceled, and Brooklyn declared the champion.TV ESPN3 and syndicatedThe Times said: “Tonight’s contest, against the Boston Brawlers, will be the first pro football game played in New York City since the Jets’ farewell to Shea Stadium in 1983.”Season February to AprilWeird rules No kickoffs; drives start from 25; 2-point conversions required.Champions T.B.D.Odd team name San Diego FleetBig-name owner Charlie Ebersol, son of the t executive Dick Ebersol, is a founder.Big-name coaches Steve Spurrier, Orlando Apollos; Mike Singletary, Memphis Express; Rick Neuheisel, Arizona HotshotsBig-name players Trent Richardson, Birmingham Iron; Zach Mettenberger, MemphisStrange occurrence Sites are already taking betting on the new league. BetDSI has the Arizona Hotshots as the favorites.TV CBS, CBS Sports Network, TNT and NFL NetworkThe Times said: “The Alliance of American Football, though, will have to overcome the obstacles that others could not, including runaway expenses, limited media exposure and a lack of fans.”Maybe a fierce rivalry will develop between San Diego and Phoenix. Maybe a player will break out the way “He Hate Me” did in the XFL. Maybe Coach Spurrier will recapture his magic. The Alliance will have to roll a Yahtzee to succeed in the shadow of the N.F.L. But even if it fails, you can bet someone will soon line up to try again.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy James PoniewozikIf you had the word “crisis” in your presidential address drinking game, my sympathies.In President Trump’s first televised address from the Oval Office, and the rebuttal from Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Charles Schumer, there was a lot of crisis talk: “Crisis of the heart,” “Manufacturing a crisis.” The president cast the crisis as a dire, dangerous wave of immigration coming across the Mexican border. For the Democrats, the crisis was the extended government shutdown, precipitated by Mr. Trump’s insistence on funding for his promised border wall.What there was not, after two days of media drama, was a convincing argument for why this needed to be a prime-time event at all. There was no news. There was no new argument. There was just a wall of sound, and the American viewing audience paid for it.Nor was there much compelling television, unless you’re an avid maker of internet memes. This was not a friendly setting for either party.The Oval Office, which can confer gravitas on a typical president, simply saps this atypical one. Mr. Trump comes alive playing off a crowd, like the ones he drove wild with promises that Mexico would pay for the wall. Plopped behind a desk, sniffling, reading sleepily from a teleprompter, he was a comedian playing an empty room.Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer, meanwhile, shared a lectern in a hallway, side by side, one glaring as the other spoke, looking unfortunately like a cross between Grant Wood’s “American Gothic” and the twins from “The Shining.”There was a bit of new rhetoric from Mr. Trump (his prepared speech referenced morality, something he rarely does off the cuff), and a few sound bites from the opposition (“We don’t govern by temper tantrum,” Mr. Schumer said). But you heard nothing you couldn’t absorb from a few minutes surfing cable news, or political Twitter, any time of the day.So what did all this accomplish? Well, it got Mr. Trump on TV, his true home. After a run of headlines for the new Democratic House, it gained him two days of newscasts about him, him, him. Cable reporters gave hourly updates on whether the president might declare a national emergency. He became the protagonist again, the home audience hanging on for the dramatic reveal.The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.The real crisis revelation, honestly, was a crisis of TV standards, which came long before the cameras started rolling. On Monday, the networks hemmed, wobbled, then decided to give Mr. Trump unfiltered access to their audience, on a topic on which he has a clear record of, well, “lies,” “falsehoods,” “misstatements” — I’ll leave it to you and your thesaurus.Whatever the semantics, the networks know they can’t trust Mr. Trump to tell the truth. They know this because he went on live TV twice last week — in a Cabinet meeting and in a long Rose Garden ramble — and said numerous things about this very topic that were demonstrably, empirically false.Assessing whether a source is credible isn’t bias. It’s not political. It’s journalism. In this case, the networks had more evidence than Charlie Brown did about Lucy and her football. (This comparison may be unfair to Charlie Brown, who did not act out of fear that the football would tweet mean things about him.)Instead, the broadcast networks carried Mr. Trump’s address live, and without the real-live, onscreen fact-checking that news outlets have experimented with in other speeches.ABC scrambled to cram in speed-talking fact-checks between speeches, its correspondents correcting information about the number of illegal border crossings, fact-checking Mr. Trump’s claim that Mexico would pay for the wall and noting that most heroin comes into the U.S. through legal border crossings. NBC and CBS focused more on the politics of the shutdown, going forward. (The cable networks, of course, had all night to debate and speculate.)CBS’s screen graphics were especially friendly to the president. The chyrons under its analysis read “President Trump: ‘The Border Wall Will Pay for Itself’” — with no assessment of the claim — “President Trump: Border Wall Is ‘Just Common Sense’” and “Pres. Trump: Securing Border a ‘Choice Between Right and Wrong.’” There were no captions quoting the Democratic rebuttal.Live airtime for Oval Office addresses isn’t an entitlement. The broadcast networks declined to air a 2014 speech by Barack Obama — on immigration! — on the grounds that it would be essentially political. They could have done the same for Mr. Trump, then covered the news he made, if there was any, with context and fact-checks.Instead, they made a gutless decision to put appearances or tradition or the fear of a presidential ragetweet over their responsibility to keep their audience from being misinformed, and for a partisan fizzle of a news event.We will see how Mr. Trump fares with the Democrats. But the TV networks put up as much of a barrier as a wall made of toothpicks.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySuper Bowl LIIILos Angeles bet on the team’s culture, and its research, when adding Aqib Talib, Ndamukong Suh, Dante Fowler and Marcus Peters to bolster the defense. It helped the Rams make the Super Bowl.By Benjamin HoffmanATLANTA — Marcus Peters came into this week well aware of the narrative that had developed around himself and the other defensive starters the Los Angeles Rams had acquired since last season.“What you’re trying to say is, how does he take a bunch of guys who have bad reps and make them act cool together?” he replied when asked how Coach Sean McVay and his assistants handled the acquisitions of Aqib Talib, Ndamukong Suh, Dante Fowler and Peters.They all have run into trouble on or off the field. So Peters, on guard for any intent to trash the reputations of the Rams newcomers, considered the question before continuing. “I got a coach who just turned 33, he does an excellent job with us,” he said. “I think that us as a team, we’ve been doing a hell of a job by respecting each other, and it’s been all together with ‘we, not me.’”That spirit of camaraderie is evident up and down the roster heading into Super Bowl LIII against the New England Patriots on Sunday. The entire team talks about the value of liking one another, the comfort they have with the coaching staff. They frequently praise the work of General Manager Les Snead, who drastically reworked the defense in a series of moves last off-season — and one significant trade during the season — that helped turn the Rams from last season’s breakout team to this season’s N.F.C. champion.Snead faced equal doses of praise and criticism as he pieced together a defense that he hoped could better complement a world-beating offense. Talib and Fowler have been involved in off-field misconduct cases. Suh had long been saddled with a reputation as a dirty player. Peters, a 26-year-old big-play cornerback, had been dismissed from his team in college and made available by the Kansas City Chiefs for a trade because of personality conflicts and some heated arguments with coaches.At the time of the trade last February, Peters made a point of mentioning that all of his issues in the past had been related to intensity on the field and that his off-field record was unblemished.Kevin Demoff, the Rams’ executive vice president for football operations, said his team was not given enough credit for due diligence before trading for Peters and the others. “We did a ton of research on each of these guys individually,” Demoff said. “It wasn’t like we opened up NFL.com’s Top-10 N.F.L. Free Agents and said, ‘yes, yes, yes, no.’”Demoff said an important element of the decision was trusting the culture created by McVay and his defensive coordinator, Wade Phillips.“I think we thought that not only could our coaching staff and the organization handle it,” Demoff said, “but that it was probably a lot less of a risk than people made it out to be.”Phillips, who had coached Talib to a Super Bowl title with the Denver Broncos, said his approach when trying to bring together players of various personalities was fairly straightforward.“You ask them to do what you want them to do, you let them know clearly how you want it done, and if they’re not doing it, you tell them,” he said. “As long as you’re truthful with these guys, they can trust you.”Talib said that Phillips was a master of letting players be themselves, but added that it was not hard to come together, because Snead and the team’s other executives had done such a good job at finding players that would fit together.“Kudos to Les,” he said. “Les went out and got the perfect group of guys that could get in the locker room and mesh together.”In the regular season, the results were mixed for the Rams’ attempt at building a championship-caliber defense. The unit ranked 19th in yards allowed and 20th in average points allowed per game (Los Angeles had ranked 12th and 19th in those categories last season). Its biggest successes were the interior pressure created by Aaron Donald, who is expected to repeat as the N.F.L.’s Defensive Player of the Year, and 30 turnovers, which ranked third in the N.F.L.The problems consisted of a propensity to allow big plays, a softness in their run defense, and an injury that cost Talib, an 11-year veteran, eight games and left the team too short-handed to compete. Peters showed flashes of brilliance, but in eight games without Talib, the Rams allowed an average of 30.6 points a game. In the 10 games, including the playoffs, that Talib started, that number was 18.3.In the postseason, the whole group has seemingly been at its best. Suh and Fowler appear rejuvenated, generating a combined three sacks, and Talib and Peters took the best shots Dak Prescott of the Dallas Cowboys and Drew Brees of the New Orleans Saints had to offer and walked away victorious both times — even after you account for the missed pass-interference call on Nickell Robey-Coleman that has continued to be an issue for the league.Peters, who was called out by Saints Coach Sean Payton for ineffective play in the Rams’ loss to New Orleans in Week 9, approached Payton after the conference championship, presumably to remind him of those unkind words. Proving Peters’s point about how narratives can be twisted, some news media described the encounter as Peters trying to fight Payton, despite video showing that the cornerback was just talking.Now that he is with the Rams, Peters has found a team willing to look beyond a headline and find out what’s really going on. And if Los Angeles can come away with a win on Sunday, Peters, doubted by so many, will undoubtedly have plenty more to say.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerPHILADELPHIA — While writing a sermon in September, Cheryl Pyrch, the pastor of Summit Presbyterian Church, needed an assist. On the topic of greatness and Jesus Christ, she wanted to open with recollections of greats in other spheres.She didn’t have to look very far for a source.Having encountered Wilt Chamberlain in passing almost 40 years ago, she decided he was the great she wanted to highlight. And details of his career — four Most Valuable Player Awards, seven N.B.A. scoring titles — were close at hand, literally and figuratively through Sports Reference, a monolith of sports data websites that just happens to rent space from the church.“I didn’t know all this in 1980,” Pyrch told the congregation as she described Chamberlain’s awards during the Sunday service. “I got it yesterday from a Sports Reference website.”The ubiquitous Sports Reference family of websites — Baseball-Reference.com, Basketball-Reference.com, Pro-Football-Reference.com, Hockey-Reference.com, and so on — are some of the most popular sports almanacs on the internet.They draw users of all kinds, from people casually searching for a trivia answer to owners of professional teams. Aided by an overhaul of its mobile website, Sports Reference’s founder and president, Sean Forman, said the group of sites drew one billion page views last year, a record for the company.Sports Reference, however, does not have the gleaming offices or huge staff of a digital titan. It has 11 full-time employees and is headquartered on the third floor of a building at Summit Presbyterian in Philadelphia, behind the 100-year-old main church and above the gymnasium, which is often used as a day care center.“Walking through it to come in and out, sometimes you’re going through 3-year-olds tossing balls,” said Mike Kania, 38, who eight years ago became one of the company’s first employees. “I worked for AOL for a long time where we had a badge to scan at the front door, people there and a front desk. It’s a lot different from that.”It is, in fact, a point of pride among Sports Reference employees that the sites have grown from humble beginnings into oft-used resources. Until late last year, Forman, 47, was cleaning the office and taking out the trash. (He has since hired the church’s janitor to take over those duties.)They are among the most popular sports-related sites. Basketball-Reference trails only NBA.com, while Pro-Football-Reference is second to NFL.com, according to SimilarWeb. Nearly two decades after Forman created Baseball-Reference, it ranks third among baseball sites, behind MLB.com and MLBTradeRumors.com. (Baseball-Reference, however, is the top draw in Forman’s stable.)The sites are not just for casual fans. J.J. Redick, the Philadelphia 76ers guard, pays for an advertising-free Basketball-Reference subscription. John Henry, the principal owner of the Boston Red Sox and Liverpool F.C., uses Baseball-Reference’s Play Index to manage statistical searches. Scott Boras, the well-known baseball agent, donated $100 to the company during its infancy because he had relied on the site’s data while negotiating a contract for Andruw Jones, Forman said.“I use it daily,” said Thad Levine, the Minnesota Twins general manager, although his team, like many others, generates its own advanced and proprietary data.“We went so far as to hire one of their back-end programmers,” added Levine, referring to Hans Van Slooten, who oversaw Baseball-Reference until June, when the Twins hired him for their front office.The sites are still expanding and developing. Forman said he envisioned Basketball-Reference eventually surpassing Baseball-Reference in traffic as a result of the data revolution in the N.B.A. And over the summer, Sports Reference began another major undertaking: a soccer website, FBref.com, which the company hopes will be as comprehensive as its other sites. In a twist from its current offerings, the company is planning to make the soccer site bilingual, with English and Spanish versions.The sites are painstakingly tweaked for updates and corrections. Some errors are reported through the dozens of emails the company receives daily. One came from the mother of Casey Fossum, a former major league pitcher. She wrote to say that her son’s birth date was wrong. It was corrected.Other requests reveal the reach of Sports Reference.A pitching coach sent an email asking that his Italian league statistics be added to his page so that his players would stop teasing him about being a bad pitcher. A woman wrote in to say that she was dating a person who claimed to be a former N.F.L. player but that she could not find him on Pro-Football-Reference. She wanted to know if that was because of an oversight or a lie.“I tried to let her down as gently as possible,” said Mike Lynch, 37, whose official title with the company is managing stathead. “I said something like, ‘If he was cut in training camp, we wouldn’t necessarily have a record of him playing in a regular season game.’”Sports Reference started with Baseball-Reference in 2000, when Forman, looking to avoid work on his doctoral dissertation on applied mathematical and computational sciences at the University of Iowa, began building a website from the CD-ROM that accompanied the printed Total Baseball encyclopedias. He hoped to make historical data more accessible.Forman, who has contributed to The New York Times’s baseball coverage in the past, expanded his endeavor by creating Sports Reference in 2004. Three years later he formalized loose affiliations with Pro-Football-Reference (founded by Doug Drinen in 2000) and Basketball-Reference (founded by Justin Kubatko in 2004). Kubatko left Sports Reference in 2013 because of what he called “creative differences.”In 2007, Forman still fit the stats nerd stereotype, working out of the basement of his home and staying up until 1 a.m. updating or improving the website. The year before, he had left his full-time job of six years — professor of mathematics and computer science at St. Joseph’s University — because it was too hard to juggle both. He also needed a better place to work.So Forman turned to his church, which had space to rent.Sports Reference’s seven websites are usually updated automatically, mostly from official feeds of statistics that the company pays for. Some data, such as roster transactions or salary information, is input manually, and there are always bugs to fix.Once you get beyond the basics, however, the information on the sites runs the gamut of sources.They include a collection of old college media guides acquired from a single collector and a professor in Britain who supplies statistics of independent baseball leagues. The sites also add some things just for fun, such as Oddibe McDowell’s page listing his utility bills from 2011 and part of 2012, in reference to a series of articles by Deadspin.Sports Reference’s goal is to become more comprehensive, even as sports leagues increasingly privatize their data. Eventually, the company hopes to charge for advanced features and to become less dependent on advertising, which currently generates 95 percent of the sites’ revenue. As of now, the only advanced tool that requires a paid subscription is Baseball-Reference’s Play Index. (Don’t worry: The page for the former Met Keith Hernandez’s mustache will live forever.)That the little company in her church has become so important, with leading sports websites, earned a laugh from Pyrch. She had been to the sites once or twice, including the time she did sermon research.“I think that both myself and most of the congregation would not realize what kind of a powerhouse Sports Reference is,” she said. “I don’t really know a lot about numbers or computers, but one billion is a lot.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Margaux LaskeyThe New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams kick off Super Bowl LIII on Sunday at 6:30 p.m., Eastern time. Whatever jersey you’re wearing, you’re going to need food to sustain you through the thrilling triumph or the agonizing defeat. And for those of you just showing up for the snacks, we’ve got you covered, too.We’ve broken down our best Super Bowl recipes into five of our favorite football food categories, from chili to wings and everything in between.(Going to Atlanta? Here’s your game plan for eating well.)Deep thought: If a football game is watched without beer and wings, was it ever really watched at all? We think not. Here are over 20 of our best chicken wing recipes including classic Buffalo (made on the grill or in the oven); Thai-style peanut; Chinese five-spice; gochujang-honey; and Japanese-style with ginger, soy and chile. Don’t forget the blue cheese or ranch dressing for dipping.View our full collection of amazing recipes for chicken wings._____Buffalo flavor is having a moment, and we’re here to celebrate it beyond wings. For the vegetarians in the stands, there’s Buffalo cauliflower, Buffalo cauliflower dip and Buffalo crudités. Creamy Buffalo chicken dip is another way to get your Buffalo-blue cheese fix. Serve it with chips and celery sticks, or do like recipe developer Ali Slagle suggests and pile it on top of a baked potato, tuck it into a hamburger roll or spoon it on top of cooked macaroni.View our full collection of all things buffalo. _____With over 20 fantastic dip recipes, you’re bound to find one that will please your guests. Go traditional with spinach-artichoke or sour cream and onion, or go rogue with Greek goddess (above) or a modern seven-layer dip. If you’re feeling brave, you could try guacamole with peas (but prepare for a revolt). Make a spread of three or four dips and call it dinner.View our full collection of delicious dips.[Sign up here to receive our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter in your inbox every Friday.]_____So maybe it’s not a traditional football food category, but for the vegan and vegetarian football fans, we have more than 50 vegetarian Super Bowl recipes. Vegetarian tortilla soup, roasted feta with honey, Cheddar scallion dip and zucchini pancakes (above) are just a handful of the satisfying dishes to choose from, so you can just say “no” to the meat sweats.View our full collection of vegetarian Super Bowl recipes._____For chili lovers (who’s not?), here are 14 of our best recipes, including Texas-style, turkey and vegetarian, plus classic and white-bean chicken variations you can make in your slow cooker. Instant Pot lovers, we’ve got your chili, too. Eat from a bowl or serve it as a topping for hot dogs, baked potatoes or nachos. Scoop a ladleful over a pile of Fritos and sprinkle with shredded cheese and there you have it: Frito pie. Check out Sam Sifton’s How to Cook Chili guide here.View our full collection of great chili recipes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTipBy Malia Wollan“If you were trapped in a room and you had to break down the door to get out, you wouldn’t hit that door with your head,” says Rex Norris, who runs football for Atavus, a Seattle-based tackling consultancy that has worked with youth, high school, college and professional teams on shoulder-led tackling. After more than a decade of crisis and controversy over concussions and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., American football organizations are looking to other sports like rugby and wrestling for alternative, lower-risk sacking methods. Never go into a tackle intending to hit with your head. “Keep your head and neck out of the equation,” Norris says. Last year, even the National Football League began penalizing players for helmet-led contact.Get close before you strike. Decide which shoulder you intend to hit the person with, and then keep the foot on that side planted on the ground — if you’re slamming with your left shoulder, for example, put your weight into the ball of your left foot as you make contact. “Your power comes from your legs and feet,” Norris says. Aim low: Ideally, your shoulder should hit your opponent’s thigh area, but consider anywhere between the pectoral muscles and the knees fair game. Square your body toward your opponent and, as you move forward, keep your elbows tucked in and your hands up, like a boxer’s. Maintain momentum after contact.Finding newfangled ways to knock other humans down to the ground is something of a growth industry. “The technique is not skill-specific, and it’s not age-specific,” Norris says; in 2018, Atavus began providing mandatory shoulder-led tackling certification to all 23,000 high school and junior high school football coaches in Texas. Leaving your head out of a tackle isn’t just a mind game, though; you need to do drills until muscle memory takes over. Players usually take to it quickly, but coaches tend to be more calcified in their ways. A quote Norris heard somewhere often comes to mind: “Some coaches love winning so much they’re willing to change, and some coaches hate change so bad they’re willing to lose.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe template for Nick Saban’s dominating Crimson Tide teams is easy to see — if you look back nearly 120 years.By Ray GlierLong before Alabama — and now Clemson — rose as proud football powers, the 1899 University of the South football team, familiarly known as the Sewanee Tigers, provided a blueprint for Southern college football domination. Alabama and Clemson would surely crush the Tigers, but the copyright for how to dominate an era of college football would probably belong to Sewanee, not Alabama or its opponent in Monday night’s national championship game, Clemson.[Alabama vs. Clemson: Follow our live coverage from the national championship game]The idealization of the football player in the South? The idea of tying a Southern university’s identity to football? They go back at least as far as Sewanee. The pursuit of money to keep a college football program greased for greatness? That is another trademark at least 119 years old.The Crimson Tide can capture their sixth national title in 10 years with a win over Clemson on Monday in Santa Clara, Calif. Clemson beat Alabama two years ago, and this is the third time the two teams have met for the championship in four years.But Sewanee, Tenn., a small town on the Cumberland Plateau, created the template for the flush, modern, Southern football powerhouse, and it has been used time and again in the past 60 years, reaching its apotheosis at Alabama under Coach Nick Saban. Sewanee was led by one of the first forward thinkers of Southern football, Luke Lea (pronounced LEE), its 22-year-old team manager. The equivalent of an athletic director today, Lea put together a five-game, six-day, 2,300-mile trip by train through the South because he needed money to finance the 1899 team, and barnstorming was the only way to get it.While most college teams were playing four or five games a season, Sewanee played 12. Lea scheduled moneymaking games against the University of Texas and Texas A&M at the front end of the trip and games with Tulane, Louisiana State and the University of Mississippi on the back end.“Luke Lea’s canniness and caginess is what made that program possible,” said Woody Register, a history professor at the University of the South who has researched the 1899 team. “It connects him to generations of program designers.”Lea, who became a United States senator at age 32, is considered the first to come up with the idea of having trainers on road trips to take care of the players and massage their weary legs back into playing shape. He created a team that was a merciless bully: The Tigers were 12-0 and outscored opponents, 322-10. Sewanee could not pass the football, as per the rules of the day, and it would be no match for Alabama or Clemson. The team was also entirely white. The first African-American student to graduate from Sewanee, Nathaniel Owens, entered in 1966 and graduated in 1970. He was an outstanding football player. Nonetheless, Norman Jetmundsen Jr., a Birmingham lawyer who is putting together a documentary on the Sewanee team, is certain today’s elite teams would be impressed with the Tigers.“They played 35 consecutive minutes a half on both sides of the ball with no substitution, and they played with serious injuries,” Jetmundsen said. “They played five games in six days on that train trip and won them all by shutout. Who wouldn’t be impressed by that?”In a chapter of a book on the history of Sewanee, Register wrote that the 1899 team “formed part of the university’s heritage.” The professor said that Benjamin Lawton Wiggins, the university’s vice chancellor at the time, in particular, rallied students around the notion that football should be a part of the Southern male’s identity. At the time, the South was desperate for cheer, and Sewanee’s success was seen as a response to the aristocratic Northerners of the day, who thought they owned the game. Football was something Southerners could excel at, especially in the aftermath of defeat in the Civil War and economic depression, said George Rable, an American historian.“The 1890s were a rough time for the nation economically, but especially for the South,” Rable said. “Football provided some comfort and sense of achievement.” The Tigers lived by the notion that football players required a roughneck quality and a deep resolve. Jetmundsen said halfback Henry Seibels, who was known as Diddy, suffered a gash on his head in the game with Texas, but continued playing when the wound was covered with quick-setting plaster. Lineman Wild Bill Claiborne played with an eye patch, ostensibly to protect an injury. He would look across at his opponent, gesture to the patch, and declare: “This is what happened in the last game. Let’s see what happens today.”Fullback Ormond Simkins wore heavy knee braces as he battered into the line. His legs were eventually amputated below the knee because of football injuries.When the Southeastern Conference was created in 1932, Sewanee was a charter member, even though its days of being a powerhouse were long over. Inclusion was a tribute to the 1899 Tigers, a team for which Alabama’s Saban is a worthy descendant. Saban was the first coach in the SEC to consistently adopt a season-opening game in a neutral, big city for money and exposure when Alabama played Clemson in Atlanta in 2008. Now, marquee matchups at the start of the season are a regular occurrence across college football. Saban is also the primary fund-raiser for football facilities on campus, which are among the best nationally. He knows what Lea did — success requires money. “There is a connection between then and now because there is a significant money element at the center of the sport, and money is an unavoidable element of the game of college football,” Register said. “To have a mighty program, and be the champions of the South, which was their real aspiration, that required money.”Saban has been a catalyst for football programs, Clemson among them, to add layers and layers of support staff, more than a century after Sewanee added trainers. And the Crimson Tide (13-0) are as merciless as they come. They outscored opponents by 33.1 points a game this season, the biggest margin in the country. Clemson was second at 30.6. Alabama and college football, in general, have become symbols of pride in the New South. As in 1899, Rable said, “there is still a sectional quality to the football” that has its roots in the sentiments created by the Civil War. If a team from the Southeastern Conference is throttling a team from another conference, he added, “you can hear chants of ‘SEC, SEC, SEC.’”The ghosts of the Sewanee Tigers, nicknamed the Ironmen, would surely approve.Advertisement
A late-game interception by New England’s Stephon Gilmore thwarted the Rams’ best chance at a comeback after Rob Gronkowski’s diving catch at the Rams’ 2-yard line set up the Patriots’ go-ahead touchdown. We fly you through the scenes of these two pivotal Super Bowl plays.
FEB. 4, 2019
Keep scrolling.Loading...Each scene was created from a single photograph using Mental Canvas

      By JON HUANG, 
    
BEDEL SAGET, 
    
ANJALI SINGHVI, 
    
JOE WARD and 
    
JEREMY WHITE

By Jon Huang, Anjali Singhvi, Joe Ward and Jeremy White; Photographs by Bedel SagetAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Rams were Super Bowl contenders all season, but faith in the Patriots turned Sean McVay’s team into underdogs. Can Los Angeles pull off an upset against the five-time champions?By Benjamin HoffmanThis Super Bowl is a matchup of old and new: The 66-year-old Bill Belichick will be coaching against the 33-year-old Sean McVay. The 41-year-old Tom Brady will be starting his ninth Super Bowl, while the 24-year-old Jared Goff will play in his first.A year after being upset in a Super Bowl that set an N.F.L. record for total yards, the Patriots will be looking for a record-tying sixth Lombardi Trophy, while the Rams, having only recently moved back to Los Angeles, will be looking to earn the franchise’s second.Kickoff: 6:30 p.m. | Television: CBS | Streaming: Free on CBSSports.comThere is more uncertainty to the Rams’ approach to this game than you would expect, and that uncertainty centers on the readiness of running back Todd Gurley.No single player has benefited more from McVay’s tenure in Los Angeles than Gurley — not even Goff. Gurley, a former Georgia star, went from the verge of being called a bust for averaging an ugly 3.2 yards a carry in 2016 to becoming perhaps the N.F.L.’s most well-rounded running back.In 29 games under McVay, Gurley has 3,924 yards from scrimmage and 40 touchdowns. A lot of that is Gurley’s versatility as a runner and pass-catcher, but he also benefits from a system in which plays are cleverly disguised. Gurley is surrounded by a solid group of skill players, and that helped him face eight men in the box on only 8.2 percent of his carries this season, which was the third-lowest figure among qualified running backs, according to the N.F.L.’s Next Gen Stats database.But Gurley sustained some knee inflammation in Week 15. That forced him to miss two games and most likely torpedoed his chance to be named the N.F.L.’s most valuable player. The Rams had to adjust on the fly in the playoffs, relying a great deal on C.J. Anderson, a veteran backup who was cut by both the Carolina Panthers and the Oakland Raiders this season.Anderson, often running the ball with protection from two tight ends, has already far exceeded expectations, and in the divisional round, both he and Gurley thrived. In the N.F.C. championship game, however, Gurley essentially disappeared, blaming his lack of reps on his “sorry” play rather than his balky knee.The Patriots’ disciplined approach does not lead to a lot of mistakes, so for Los Angeles to be productive on offense, its success will probably have to come in large part from the running game. That makes Gurley’s health even more important.Belichick has been known to focus his defense on eliminating the player he sees as the biggest threat, but with the uncertainty surrounding Gurley, the Patriots could go in a different direction and work on shutting down the Rams’ top wide receivers. New England is intimately familiar with both of them: Brandin Cooks played for the Patriots last season, and Robert Woods began his career in the A.F.C. East playing for the Buffalo Bills.The Patriots’ defense played with fire a bit this season, allowing an average of 359.1 yards a game, which was 23rd in the N.F.L. But they were able to prevent teams from turning yards into points, allowing opponents just 20.3 points, which ranked seventh. That could be a very dangerous formula against Los Angeles when one considers both Gurley and Anderson’s ability to punch the ball into the end zone.In these playoffs, the Patriots have made a point of starting strong. They scored on their opening drive against the Chiefs in the A.F.C. championship game, and on their first four possessions against the Chargers in the divisional round.New England’s formula for success is not hard to decipher, but it has proved mostly impossible to stop. It all centers on moving remarkably fast, with Tom Brady alternating between short throws and handoffs in an approach best described as death by a thousand cuts.Numerous times per game an opposing defense will appear to have New England stopped, only to have a swing pass to James White or a second-effort by Julian Edelman keep things going. Depending on one’s perspective, it is either infuriating or inspiring, but either way it works.The differences from last season to this one are Brady’s having cooled off some in terms of throwing the ball deep (that’s largely a personnel issue rather than an indication that Brady’s arm has aged) and the Patriots’ having developed Sony Michel, a rookie running back, into a player who would be an every-down back on any team that didn’t like to mix things up as much as New England does.That familiar approach will be going up against a Rams defense that produces a lot of game-changing turnovers but also has a propensity for giving up huge amounts of yards and points. Wade Phillips, the Rams’ defensive coordinator, has often proven to have a magic touch, and he certainly has a talented group of players, but there is a sense that they have yet to reach their potential. The unit’s reliance on exploiting mistakes could be an issue against an opponent not known for making them.Thanks to the extended rest, Gurley should be ready to go, and that could make all the difference for Los Angeles. Establishing his versatility early in the game will open up everything else and allow Goff to get points on the scoreboard. That should keep the Rams from falling into the same hole the Chiefs and the Chargers did. It is tempting to believe Brady can keep up even if the game turns into a shootout, but Aaron Donald, the Rams’ standout defensive tackle, is perhaps the perfect disrupter for New England’s offense. If Donald can generate consistent pressure up the middle, forcing even mild mistakes from Brady, then McVay, a coaching mind who has already been hailed as the future of the N.F.L., would be ready to be crowned king of the league’s present. The game will undoubtedly be close — the Patriots always seem to make it close — but the Rams should win.Rams +2.5Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAs teams compete for spots in the conference championship games, Patrick Mahomes makes his playoff debut, Philip Rivers tries to beat the Patriots and Ezekiel Elliott looks to run all over the Rams.By Benjamin HoffmanIt will be hard to match the excitement of the N.F.L.’s wild-card weekend, in which the Colts won with an upset on the road, the Cowboys barely survived against the Seahawks, the Chargers invented a new defense to stop the Ravens and the Eagles shocked the Bears with help from a tipped field-goal attempt.Helping matters will be the playoff debut of the Chiefs’ Patrick Mahomes and the return to action of quarterbacks Tom Brady and Drew Brees. The Rams would also like to remind everyone that it was only a few weeks ago that they were considered Super Bowl favorites.Here are our predictions for how the divisional round will sort out, both in terms of who will win and who will win against the spread.Record against the spread in the wild-card round: 2-1-14:35 p.m. Saturday, NBCThe Colts’ defense is not talked about that much. Individual players did not rack up a lot of big round numbers that could be pointed to as measures of success. Denico Autry led the team with nine sacks and Kenny Moore led it with three interceptions. The one player whose numbers stood out was the rookie linebacker Darius Leonard, who led the N.F.L. in tackles — not a statistic most people follow closely. Beyond him, the breakout star was the team’s defensive coordinator, Matt Eberflus.Regardless, from Week 7 forward, Indianapolis allowed the fewest points in the N.F.L. And now, after nearly shutting out the Houston Texans in the wild-card round, the Colts will be asked to prove that their success is not a fluke against the Chiefs, who scored the third-most points in a single N.F.L. season.The best offense the Colts faced this season was New England’s, and that was during their slow start. In truth, there does not appear to be a way to slow Kansas City. Led by the second-year star quarterback Patrick Mahomes, the Chiefs scored fewer than 30 points only four times this season (and never scored fewer than 26), and were 3-1 in those games.So the question becomes whether the Colts’ no-name defense and a chilly, possibly snowy day at Kansas City’s Arrowhead Stadium can slow the Chiefs enough to let Andrew Luck and the Indianapolis offense make this a game.There are paths to victory for both teams, but the most likely result is a win by the Chiefs. That’s hardly an insult to the Colts, a balanced team that has been fun to watch but that has the misfortune of being the first team to face Mahomes in the playoffs. Pick to win: ChiefsPick against the spread: Chiefs -5.58:15 p.m. Saturday, FoxWhen Los Angeles wrapped up a thrilling 54-51 win over the Chiefs in Week 11, the Rams appeared to have all but punched their ticket to the Super Bowl. They were 10-1, they had just defeated the only team considered a real threat to them and their defense was finally making big plays commensurate with the production of the team’s high-flying offense. They went 3-2 the rest of the way, looking nowhere near as sharp on offense and losing the only two games they played against decent competition — wins against the Lions, the Cardinals and the 49ers were hardly something to hang your hat on this season. Along the way, Los Angeles lost the No. 1 seed in the N.F.C. to the New Orleans Saints.That brings us to the divisional round. Coach Sean McVay, who has become the toast of the N.F.L., is hoping for a better effort from his team than last year’s upset loss in the same round, in which his offense managed 13 points against the Atlanta Falcons.A big factor will be the health of Todd Gurley, the Rams’ do-everything running back. Gurley had 1,831 yards from scrimmage and 21 touchdowns this season, but as a result of a knee injury he has not carried the ball since Dec. 16 and is still described as limited in the team’s practice reports. If Gurley’s knee is sound, or at least a reasonable approximation of sound, the Rams should be able to outpace the more grinding Cowboys’ offense fairly easily. But they will need to keep their foot on the gas because the worst-case scenario for Los Angeles would be keeping things close enough that Dallas can put the ball in the hands of Ezekiel Elliott. The N.F.L.’s leading rusher, Elliott would feast against a defense that allowed a horrendous 5.1 yards a carry this season.Pick to win: RamsPick against the spread: Rams -71:05 p.m. Sunday, CBSTo hold Philip Rivers’s playoff losses to the Patriots against him is a little ridiculous when you consider the losses came in 2007 and 2008. To hold his regular-season record versus the Patriots against him might be fairer: He was 1-5 in those games, and the win came with Matt Cassel starting for New England.This Chargers team, though, is far more than Rivers. It finished sixth in scoring offense and eighth in scoring defense this season, and if not for the unfortunate circumstance of having to share a division with the Chiefs, Los Angeles would be hosting this game rather than traveling to the harsh conditions of Foxborough’s Gillette Stadium.Predicting playoff failures for Coach Bill Belichick and Tom Brady has been a fool’s errand, especially in the divisional round, where they are 12-2. But this game could come down to a pair of guys named Melvin.On offense, the Chargers rely heavily on running back Melvin Gordon. He had 1,375 yards from scrimmage and 14 touchdowns despite missing four games and being limited by injuries in others. His production allowed Rivers to pick and choose when he would take a chance downfield to Keenan Allen or Mike Williams. The team had to work around his injuries in the regular season, which led to more playing time for Austin Ekeler and Justin Jackson, which could come in handy this weekend, as Gordon is nursing injuries to both knees.On defense, the Chargers can unleash Melvin Ingram on Brady. If the fleet-footed Lamar Jackson had trouble running away from the defensive end, just imagine how quickly Ingram can close the space between him and Brady. Ingram had only seven sacks in the regular season, but he was a menace last weekend against Baltimore, with a pair of sacks and a seemingly endless stream of plays that ended up with him in the backfield. With Joey Bosa finally healthy, the Chargers have the ability to penetrate even the best offensive lines, and that could be a major disruption when one considers how thin New England is at wide receiver. No one should be surprised if the Patriots find a way to win — that’s what they do — but the Chargers were a better team this season, and Rivers has a good chance of surprising everyone and finally beating Brady.Pick to win: ChargersPick against the spread: Chargers +44:40 p.m. Sunday, FoxIf you subtract Week 17, when they were clearly making no effort to win, the Saints have lost just one game since Week 1, and that one was a freakish outlier in which Drew Brees and the offense simply never showed up against a motivated Cowboys’ defense. Even in that defeat, New Orleans could take away some positives, as the defense allowed only 13 points. In was one of nine games this season in which the Saints allowed fewer than 20 points. Dennis Allen has turned the unit into something worth celebrating over the last two years. Make no mistake, however, people come to the Saints to see the offense, and it more than delivered with the third-most points in the N.F.L. this season. Brees was brilliant, connecting with Michael Thomas for an N.F.L.-leading 125 catches, but the running game was just as vital, generating the sixth-most rushing yards in the league (2,025) and the most rushing touchdowns (26). Philadelphia followed last year’s Super Bowl win by having the 23rd-ranked defense in the N.F.L. this season. The team has won four straight, including last weekend’s wild-card game, a stretch in which it has knocked off three playoff teams in the Rams, the Texans and the Bears. There has been no better story in the N.F.L. over the last two seasons than Nick Foles, Ace Reliever. But expecting the magic to continue is a step too far. The Saints are better at offense, better at defense and have a fairly fresh memory of being shockingly eliminated in last year’s playoffs to motivate them. Pick to win: SaintsPick against the spread: Saints -8.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagBob Costas, the longtime sportscaster and prime-time host on NBC, alleged in an interview that aired on Sunday that the network’s executives abruptly removed him from covering last year’s Super Bowl after he criticized the violence in football and how the “game destroys people’s brains.”His nearly 40-year relationship with NBC Sports, first as its boyish announcer and later as elder statesman, came crashing down over five days in November 2017. At a symposium that month with fellow journalists, Mr. Costas remarked on what he saw as the life-altering dangers of the sport, devastating consequences for its players and existential questions confronting the National Football League.“The reality is that this game destroys people’s brains — not everyone’s, but a substantial number,” Mr. Costas told the crowd at the University of Maryland. “It’s not a small number, it’s a considerable number. It destroys their brains.”His highly critical remarks, while in line with his past public comments about the link between playing football and head trauma, including an hourlong NBC special about it in 2013, quickly grabbed headlines and cast an uncomfortable spotlight on NBC Sports just months before it would broadcast the N.F.L.’s biggest and most lucrative event, the Super Bowl.At the end of that week in November, Mr. Costas appeared on the CNN program “Smerconish” in what he later described as an effort to soften the reaction to his remarks. He said that network executives had been well aware of his thoughts about football and that “NBC Sports deserves credit” for supporting him as he expressed his views.Still, network executives were seething, according to Mr. Costas, setting in motion his removal from the network’s Super Bowl plan and his eventual departure from NBC. Mr. Costas spoke about the episode with ESPN last year for a story that aired Sunday on “Outside the Lines.”Within an hour of his appearance on CNN, he said, he received a text message from Sam Flood, an executive producer at NBC. “I think the words were, ‘You’ve crossed the line,’” Mr. Costas told ESPN, adding that he no longer had the text message.Mr. Costas told ESPN that he believed his remarks had cut too close to the delicate, multibillion-dollar business relationship between the N.F.L. and the networks that carry the games.“Look, the N.F.L. isn’t just the most important sports property, it’s the single most important property in all of American television,” Mr. Costas said. “And it isn’t even close.”An NBC Sports spokesman confirmed that Mr. Costas had been told that he had “crossed the line” but said it was not because he had discussed the topic of brain injuries and football. Instead, the spokesman said, it was because Mr. Costas had agreed after the University of Maryland symposium that he would no longer discuss the topic in interviews without prior approval from NBC Sports.He had not sought approval for the CNN interview, the spokesman, Greg Hughes, said on Monday.Shortly after the CNN appearance, Mr. Costas said, he was told he would not be part of NBC’s coverage of Super Bowl LII in February 2018. It was a sudden breakup between NBC and Mr. Costas, its longtime host of the Olympics and of “Football Night in America,” the network’s highly rated Sunday N.F.L. pregame show. Last year, he described the separation in public as “mutually agreeable.”The parting was the culmination of Mr. Costas’s wavering commitment over many years to covering the N.F.L. He stepped away from NBC’s coverage in the 1990s, later saying the decision was because he “had ambivalent feelings about football.” Yet he was a host of HBO’s “Inside the N.F.L.” in the 2000s and then rejoined NBC’s coverage of the sport in the 2006-7 season, when the network started a $600 million-a-year deal with the league for Sunday night games. He continued hosting that program, “Sunday Night Football,” for the next decade, as awareness about the long-term effects of head injuries continued to rise.During that time, Mr. Costas used the top-rated show’s platform to provide commentary on everything from guns to politics. In a halftime commentary in 2012, Mr. Costas called for “enlightened legislation and controls” on guns a day after a Kansas City Chiefs player shot and killed his girlfriend and then himself.The network never received criticism or complaints from the N.F.L. about Mr. Costas’s coverage or commentary, including his remarks at the 2017 symposium, Mr. Hughes said.By the time Mr. Costas appeared at that event, he had already taken a back seat in NBC’s coverage. He hosted the first “Football Night in America” of the 2017-18 football season but then handed off the remaining shows to Mike Tirico, who had moved over from ESPN to become NBC’s face of major sports events. When NBC eventually announced that Mr. Costas would not participate in the Super Bowl broadcast, he said that it would not have been fair to those who had been there the entire season.“It wouldn’t be right for me to parachute in and do the Super Bowl,” he told The Associated Press weeks before the event. NBC and Mr. Costas officially parted ways last fall, when they agreed to end his contract early.AdvertisementA brutal game got them hooked on painkillers. In retirement, they battle addiction. The opioid crisis courses through football.Randy Grimes sought help when all the trappings of his N.F.L. life were gone, and now works at a rehabilitation center in Delray Beach, Fla.CreditCreditScott McIntyre for The New York TimesSupported byBy Ken BelsonEarl Campbell, a former All-Pro running back in the N.F.L., said the first painkillers he took came in a small brown packet that a trainer gave him on the team plane. The former lineman Aaron Gibson received his first painkillers in his rookie year after undergoing shoulder surgery. Randy Grimes, a former center, started taking Vicodin and Halcion, a sleeping pill, in his second season to get through full-contact practices.Like hundreds of former N.F.L. players, Campbell, Gibson and Grimes said they never took painkillers in college, or at any time before they entered the league. Yet as professionals, they regularly used the pills to continue playing, and even in retirement, their pill-popping habits persisted, sending them on haunting, shattering journeys into opioid addiction. It has taken years of struggle, money and anguish in order to heal. Putting up with pain — a lot of it — has for decades been central to the bargain of playing for glory and money in the N.F.L., the biggest stage in American sports. To do that, countless players have long ingested far more pills than they should. In recent years though, N.F.L. players, especially linemen, have gotten significantly larger, and pain medication has become far more potent and addictive, with devastating consequences. A study published last year in the Clinical Journal of Sport Medicine found that 26.2 percent of retired players said they had used prescription opioids within the past 30 days. Nearly half of those players said they did not use them as prescribed.Seven percent of retired players — equal to about 1,500 men — said they had misused painkillers in the past month, according to a study conducted in 2011 by researchers at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. That was more than three times the national rate for adults 26 and older at the time. Seventy-one percent of those surveyed had misused drugs during their N.F.L. careers, and some of them continued to do so after they left the league, the study found. Players who abused opioids in retirement were also more likely to be heavy drinkers.In the past, players might have tried to manage their pain with a handful of Percocet, or by indulging in the over-the-counter medicines that used to be left in bowls in trainer’s rooms. Now, supersize men with crippling injuries and high tolerances for pain medication, such as Grimes and Gibson, seek out far stronger and more dangerous drugs, like high-dosage OxyContin, which cost about $500 for roughly 50 pills. “I was running through those like nothing,” Gibson said. “One doctor who thought he was the only one treating me said, ‘Aaron, what I’m prescribing you is what I’d give a Stage 4 cancer patient.’”[Adding bulk for a football career haunts some retirees.]The problems often grow worse after careers end, when the effects of injuries sustained while playing require interventions that can include multiple surgeries. “When you get out of pro football, you start having these operations,” said Campbell, a running back for most of his career with the Houston Oilers who was confronted a decade ago by his family about his drug use. “I didn’t realize what I had until I got out of rehab.” For decades, players have justified taking painkillers because the medication helped them earn big N.F.L. paychecks. Now, a growing number are saying the easy access to pills turned them into addicts.“I absolutely said, ‘When I’m not playing, I’m not going to have to do this,’” said Gibson, a 6-foot-6 first-round draft pick who played in the N.F.L. from 1999 to 2004. After he retired, he took as many as 200 pills a day before he stopped taking painkillers three years ago. “If I didn’t play in the N.F.L., I know I wouldn’t have been in this situation,” he said, referring to his life as a “full-on pill addict.”Asked what the N.F.L. was doing to reduce the reliance on highly addictive painkillers, Roger Goodell, its commissioner, said the league’s executives were consulting with pain management experts and seeking recommendations. “We obviously put this as a huge priority for us, making sure that we are taking care of our current players as well as our former players,” Goodell said at a news conference during the lead-up to the Super Bowl. “Our players are cared for by the world’s finest medical professionals. The dedicated medical and training staffs of every N.F.L. club are and always have been committed to providing their patients with the best possible care.”What Goodell did not say is that the distribution of drugs by team doctors and medical professionals has come under repeated scrutiny from federal regulators. It is also central to at least two active lawsuits brought by former players who accuse N.F.L. teams of, among other things, not warning them about the destructiveness of the painkillers they were given. In the first case, led by the former Chicago Bears defensive end Richard Dent, a federal judge initially dismissed the suit on the grounds that the league’s collective bargaining agreement required the parties to contest this kind of dispute in arbitration, not the courts. The players appealed, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco ruled in their favor, reinstating the case. “The parties to a C.B.A. cannot bargain for what is illegal,” the appeals court panel wrote.In the second case, the players sued the clubs that employed the team doctors, not the league, for improperly distributing painkillers. The same judge who dismissed the first case ruled that the statute of limitations had passed. The Ninth Circuit heard arguments in an appeal in December. In 2017, the N.F.L. Players Association filed a grievance against the league for overprescribing painkillers, not keeping accurate records of the drugs that teams distributed and denying the union's medical director access to meetings and documents relevant to the distribution of painkillers. The two sides are locked in arbitration.Even before the legal action, the league’s pill culture had been well documented in tell-all books by former players and team doctors, and portrayed in books and films like “North Dallas Forty.”What happens to players like Gibson when they leave the N.F.L. cocoon has been less explored. Like many players, his departure was abrupt, involuntary and wrenching. Although he no longer abused his body every week in practices and games, he could no longer rely on team doctors to help him cope with the lingering injuries he had to his neck, back, shoulders, knees and ankles that made getting out of bed in the morning a 30-minute ordeal.So he coped on his own. He found new doctors, visited pain clinics and bought painkillers on the street and even from residents at retirement homes.Addiction is expensive. Most pills are not covered by insurance. So like other addicts, retired N.F.L. players with addiction problems reach into their pockets. Spare cash disappears. Possessions are pawned. Homes are sold. Players are abandoned by their families, leaving men like Grimes sleeping alone on the floor in an empty house, as he recounted, with the utilities turned off, consumed by the pain of withdrawal.An ingrained warrior mentality can prevent them from admitting weakness. Grimes finally sought help 17 years after his career with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers ended in 1992, when all the trappings of his N.F.L. life were gone.“At that point, I had no excuse not to do it,” said Grimes, who has been off pills for almost a decade and now works for Transformations Treatment Center in Delray Beach, Fla., which helps former players and others battle substance abuse. “I was jobless, desperate, my family wanted nothing to do with me. I thought I hit a lot of bottoms, but that was the real bottom.”The Player Care Foundation, which is run by the league; the union’s Player Assistance Trust Fund; and Gridiron Greats, a nonprofit group started by the former coach Mike Ditka, help retired players with substance abuse problems.For Grimes, his addiction was formed in the N.F.L., but it intensified when he left the league.In addition to the chronic pain from years of playing football, the shock of leaving the league — his coach simply tapped him on the shoulder and told him he was cut — and the struggle to find a job that could match the elation of running onto a field on Sundays sent him into an emotional tailspin.“I just wanted to numb up because I couldn’t move on to the next step, and I didn’t know what that next step was,” Grimes said.The injuries did not heal, and Grimes’s tolerance for Hydrocodone, Percocet, Vicodin and other painkillers grew. To feed his addiction, he visited an array of doctors with the X-rays from his playing days.Later, he visited pain clinics where, he said, doctors requested only the briefest justification for writing prescriptions, at a time when many physicians accepted a sales pitch from drug companies, such as Purdue Pharma, the maker of several potent painkillers, that their pills were a safe and effective way to treat pain. These pills required more and more cash, though.“He’d go to these loan places, and all of a sudden he’d have money,” Grimes’s wife, Lydia, said. “Before I knew it, my jewelry was missing. He was pawning things. Things were missing off the wall.”Eventually, they sold the house and Lydia moved in with her parents. That’s when Grimes finally sought help, 10 years ago, at a treatment center in New Jersey.Gibson, the former lineman, had a similar tale. He spent six years in the N.F.L. and several more in an indoor football league, where painkillers, he said, were even easier to get. In retirement he was left with a battered 400-pound body that he medicated with opioids. The abuse he endured in his career and his struggles with obesity left him with shoulders that barely move, chronic knee and back pain, and feet that are missing the big toe.He also ran a company that provided bodyguards. But trying to find pills soon became his full-time job. Like Grimes, he found doctors willing to write prescriptions. When they realized he was also getting painkillers from other doctors, he found new doctors, then pain clinics. He was so hungry for painkillers, he found a senior center where the residents were willing to sell their pills to him.“They can easily make $600, $700, off this one bottle of pills, so that would double their social security for the month,” he said.Gibson tried to quit cold turkey, but the withdrawal symptoms overwhelmed him. Then he met Brigitte, a sports massage therapist who became his wife. She worked on addressing the pain that was driving him to take pills. Several times a week, she stretched his muscles and tendons in his neck, back and legs. As the pain eased, Gibson took fewer pills. After he stopped entirely, he leaned on Brigitte when he had cravings.“There were a lot of talks at 3 a.m.,” she said.Off painkillers, Gibson now sleeps better and eats healthier food. He has lost about 100 pounds. He has had surgery on his hip, feet and mouth, but has endured the pain without prescription drugs because he fears a relapse.“It was an everyday battle to say no, I don’t want the pills,” said Gibson, who had a sign in his hospital room telling nurses and doctors not to give him painkillers. “They are a road that I will never go down again.”Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer VineyardWatching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Until we get the updated weather report from Punxsutawney Phil, it might remain best to stay inside, stay warm and stream. Below are the most interesting of what we’ve found among the new TV series and movies coming to the major streaming services in February, followed by a roundup of all the best new titles in all genres. (Streaming services occasionally change schedules without giving notice.)‘Generation Wealth’Starts streaming: Feb. 1, on Amazon.It can be hard to tell whether the current obsession with the lifestyles of the rich and famous — now often referred to as Kardashian Syndrome — is old hat, or a sign of something seriously wrong with our society. The photographer and filmmaker Lauren Greenfield investigates modern celebrity worship and the rampant consumerism that feeds into it by talking to bond traders, porn stars, child beauty pageant queens and the writer Bret Easton Ellis. Her film is most insightful, though, when she turns the camera on herself and her family and takes stock of their own values and aspirations. Could they be heading in the same sad direction as her other subjects?—‘Russian Doll’ Starts streaming: Feb. 1, on Netflix.The many-layered “Russian Doll” is a sort of downtown “Groundhog Day” — Nadia (Natasha Lyonne), a video game programmer, dies on the night of her 36th birthday party in the East Village, then wakes up to relive the same night and the same party all over again. And again. And again … Did she take a bad drug? Is she losing her mind? Or is something more existential in play? Lyonne, who created the show with Amy Poehler and Leslye Headland, is a revelation in this cleverly constructed, nearly perfect character study. —‘Velvet Buzzsaw’ Starts streaming: Feb. 1, on Netflix.This supernatural satire takes us inside a pompous art scene in which the latest buzz surrounds the disturbing work of a recently deceased painter. The artist’s last wish was that all of his work be destroyed, but (spoiler alert) that doesn’t happen. Unpleasant, demonic occurrences unfold for anyone attempting to make a profit off the art, including a smug critic played by Jake Gyllenhaal. The writer-director Dan Gilroy (“Nightcrawler”) finds plenty to laugh about even among the carnage. —‘Don’t Worry, He Won’t Get Far on Foot’Starts streaming: Feb. 8, on Amazon.John Callahan (Joaquin Phoenix) became a heavy drinker at the age of 12 and, after a car accident, a quadriplegic at 21. Despite his troubled beginnings, Callahan went on to become a noted cartoonist who managed to find caustic humor in the subject of disability. In “Don’t Worry,” based on Callahan’s memoir, the director Gus Van Sant also finds biting wit and brings an airy sweetness to this offbeat tale. The supporting cast, including Jonah Hill, Jack Black and Carrie Brownstein, is excellent. But this is Phoenix’s movie: He creates a portrait of a man who must learn how to bear this seemingly unbearable direction his life has suddenly taken and do so while making others laugh.—‘High Flying Bird’Starts streaming: Feb. 8, on Netflix.In this intimate, complex basketball drama from Steven Soderbergh, Ray (André Holland) is a top sports agent strategizing to get his players paid during an NBA lockout — which means deftly navigating a maze of contract negotiations, power structures and racial dynamics before the clock runs out. Soderbergh shot “High Flying Bird” on an iPhone (as he did with his previous feature “Unsane”), reportedly in just two weeks. But this doesn’t feel like a rush job: Instead, Tarell Alvin McCraney’s (“Moonlight”) tight, subversive script feels urgent and thrilling even though most of the action takes place on the sidelines or in offices, not on the court. —‘PEN15’ Starts streaming: Feb. 8, on Hulu.Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle are fully grown adults, but in this coming-of-age comedy series co-produced by The Lonely Island, the actresses play versions of their 13-year-old selves in seventh grade. (All of their middle-school classmates are played by actual 13-year-olds. Wisely, when one of their characters has her first kiss, an adult’s lips stand in for the teenage actor’s in close up, minimizing the ick factor.) The series is as strange as it sounds, and maybe a little strained; but it mostly works because Erskine and Konkle are not that tall and slouch a lot. “Pen15” shows there’s fun to be had in mining the cognitive dissonance of grown-ups inserted into adolescent situations.—‘Won’t You Be My Neighbor’ Starts streaming: Feb. 9, on HBO.Morgan Neville’s documentary about Fred Rogers, the nicest neighbor in the history of television, is not an exposé revealing dark truths or secret scandals about the man inside the cardigan sweater. Instead, we learn that Rogers was a genuinely good person who saw his long-running show as a kind of ministry for children. (One of his sons calls him “the second Christ.”) Rogers himself might have felt as if he failed in his efforts to counter more popular, violent programming, but spending time with him here will make the world seem like a better place, at least for a little while.—‘The Umbrella Academy’ Season 1Starts streaming: Feb. 15, on Netflix.If Wes Anderson were inclined to make an emo superhero movie, it might turn out like “The Umbrella Academy.” Based on the hit graphic novel series by Gerard Way, the leader of the band My Chemical Romance, the series concerns a very dysfunctional family in which several gifted children have been adopted by an eccentric billionaire, given numbers for names and brought up to save the world. They’re also apparently in a competition to see which of them can be the most deadpan — while fending off an apocalypse, of course.—‘The Giant Beast That Is the Global Economy’ Starts streaming: Feb. 22, on Amazon.Remember the quick, funny, fourth-wall-breaking cameos sprinkled into Adam McKay’s “The Big Short,” featuring the likes of Margot Robbie and Selena Gomez? McKay has taken that same technique and stretched it out into an eight-part docu-series hosted by Kal Penn. The film includes comedians like Zach Galifianakis, Pete Holmes and Rashida Jones, who help explain such knotty subjects as bitcoin, counterfeiting and money laundering (which is way too easy to do, by the way). Should you be appalled, or just take notes?—‘Three Identical Strangers’ Starts streaming: Feb. 26, on Hulu.This disturbing documentary profiles a set of triplets separated as infants and adopted by three separate families. As young adults, the brothers reconnect by chance and even land a cameo in the Madonna movie “Desperately Seeking Susan.” Squint your eyes and this could almost pass for a feel-good reunion story. But it turns out social engineering has been at play and an insidious narrative is revealed. The more the brothers learn about their past, the more they wonder who they really are, and why.Also Arriving This Month:New to Amazon Prime Video: “The ABC Murders” (Feb. 1), “The Blues Brothers” (Feb. 1), “Four Weddings and a Funeral” (Feb. 1), “Marathon Man” (Feb. 1), “The Matrix” (Feb. 1), “The Portrait of a Lady” (Feb. 1), “Terminator 2: Judgment Day” (Feb. 1), “Thelma & Louise” (Feb. 1), “Wayne’s World” (Feb. 1), “The Expanse” Season 3 (Feb. 8), “White Dragon” Season 1 (Feb. 8) and “The Party” (Feb. 17).—New to Hulu: “The Big Lebowski” (Jan. 1), “Born on the Fourth of July” (Feb. 1), “Caddyshack” (Feb. 1), “Capote” (Feb. 1), “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” (Feb. 1), “Dazed and Confused” (Feb. 1), “Field of Dreams” (Feb. 1), “Four Weddings and a Funeral” (Feb. 1), “Hairspray” (Feb. 1), “Marathon Man” (Feb. 1), “Mississippi Burning” (Feb. 1), “Moonstruck” (Feb. 1), “Mystic Pizza” (Feb. 1), “The Portrait of a Lady” (Feb. 1), “The Royal Tenenbaums” (Feb. 1), “The Secret Garden” (Feb. 1), “Terminator 2: Judgment Day” (Feb. 1), “Thelma & Louise” (Feb. 1), “Three Kings” (Feb. 1), “Wayne’s World” (Feb. 1), “Wedding Crashers” (Feb. 1), “Legion” Season 2 (Feb. 3), “The Party” (Feb. 17) and “The Sisters Brothers” (Feb. 18).—New to HBO: “The Bourne Identity” (Feb. 1), “Collateral” (Feb. 1), “The Pelican Brief” (Feb. 1), “Sunshine” (Feb. 1), “2 Dope Queens” Season 2 Premiere (Feb. 8), “Deadpool 2” (Feb. 16), “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver” Season 6 Premiere (Feb. 18), “It’s a Hard Truth Ain’t It” (Feb. 23) and “O.G.” (Feb. 23).—New to Netflix: “About a Boy” (Feb. 1), “As Good as It Gets” (Feb. 1), “Billy Elliot” (Feb. 1), “Hairspray” (Feb. 1), “Jaws” (Feb. 1), “Pretty in Pink” (Feb. 1), “The Edge of Seventeen” (Feb. 1), “Velvet Buzzsaw” (Feb. 1), “Ray Romano: Right Here, Around the Corner” (Feb. 5), “One Day at a Time” Season 3 (Feb. 8), “Patriot Act with Hasan Minhaj” Volume 2 (Feb. 10), “Ken Jeong: You Complete Me, Ho” (Feb. 14), “The Breaker Upperers” (Feb. 15), “Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy” (Feb. 15), “The 40-Year-Old Virgin” (Feb. 16) and “Paddleton” (Feb. 22).AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFor the first time, over a dozen top aides — from the speaker’s national security adviser to the majority whip’s chief of staff — are racial minorities.By Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — A day after House Democrats retook the majority, Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent a message to her colleagues that would soon be adopted as a creed.“We know that the diversity in our ranks is a strength,” Ms. Pelosi wrote, “and a reflection of the American people that it is our great honor to serve.”She was imploring them to adopt the National Football League’s practice of interviewing a minority candidate for senior positions. Her letter was an acknowledgment of a long-held truism on Capitol Hill — while Congress has long been remarkably racially homogeneous, perhaps nowhere has that been more apparent than among the ranks of Capitol Hill staff, regardless of party. Despite an increasingly diverse House, the staff employed by those members are not only less ethnically diverse than the country, but less diverse than the members who employed them.That is changing. In the most racially diverse House in history, a record number of top Democratic aides are men and women of color, including the speaker’s national security adviser and the majority whip’s chief of staff.In September, 13.7 percent of top aides in the House were minorities, according to research by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington-based research center. Bolstered by hires made by new members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, that number has risen to 20.9 percent, the center said — by no means transformative but a noticeable shift in halls of power that have always been disproportionately white.When Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the No. 5 Democrat, announced his roster of lieutenants last week, six of eight were people of color, four of them women, including his chief of staff.“The diversity of experience and background of our new senior team reflects the gorgeous mosaic of the Democratic Caucus,” Mr. Jeffries, who is black, said in a statement.As House Democrats pursue an aggressive agenda, holding high-profile oversight hearings and passing legislation on health care, campaign finance transparency, and gun control, these aides are influencing major policy decisions, shaping messages and leading the staffs of nearly half a dozen committees, including the powerful Ways and Means and Appropriations panels.“It is a best business practice,” Kemba Hendrix, director of the House’s diversity initiative, said in an interview. “If we’re looking to create policy that impacts people from different frameworks, we have to be able to do that” with aides with diverse backgrounds.Spencer Overton, president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, said the prominence of minority aides is as important as the quantity.“This change in focus in terms of leadership is important,” he said.“We need diversity in big tech, on corporate boards. With Congress, however, the primary function is to represent people,” Mr. Overton continued. “So the failure of members of Congress to hire diverse staff and diverse top staff really goes to their dysfunction as an institution.”The diversity expansion did not happen on its own. Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts, who is white and is chairman of the House Rules Committee, expanded a diversity initiative established last Congress by the Democratic Caucus to the entire House as part of a rules package approved when the Democrats took control.Ms. Pelosi, who is white, hired Ms. Hendrix to lead the House Democratic Diversity Initiative when she was House minority leader last Congress. Now that Democrats are in the majority, Ms. Hendrix assists all House offices with improving their hiring practices and creating a pipeline of diverse aides. In addition to fielding questions and conducting one-on-one sessions with offices, she oversees a resume bank curated in collaboration with the Democratic Caucus that helps pull in candidates from traditionally neglected networks, such as historically black colleges.“This is a place where who you know does, at times, affect how you are able to access employment,” Ms. Hendrix said. “The ability to access networks and become familiar within those networks takes time.”Wyndee Parker, Ms. Pelosi’s African-American national security adviser, recalled, “when the speaker was first elected in early 2007, I started looking around and recognizing that I was seeing more women and more minorities in key roles.”“There has been some improvement since that time, and I’m happy about that,” she added, “but I think that we still have a ways to go.”For one thing, the Republicans have not kept the same pace. In their leadership offices, there are far fewer minorities. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, who is white and is the Republican leader, employs an Asian-American deputy chief of staff, and Representative Gary Palmer of Alabama, who is white and the chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, employs an African-American chief of staff. Neither aide was available to comment.The implications of having a diverse staff are significant. Top aides have the ear of members. Crucial to establishing a pipeline of diversity, they are also responsible for hiring decisions. Top aides often go on to jobs in the executive branch or run for Congress themselves.Creating a pipeline is particularly important for young minority professionals, diversity experts say. For years, internships — one of the first opportunities to make connections on the Capitol Hill — were unpaid, thinning the applicant pool by affluence. And the social networks that can make or break getting jobs in congressional offices have long been historically white.Shuwanza Goff, the first African-American woman to direct action on the House floor, recalled entering rooms full of men, many with more experience than her, and having to tell them “what the plan is.”“That was challenging for me and something to grapple with,” she said.Brandon Casey, the first minority staff director of the Ways and Means Committee, acknowledged that there was a stigma against people of color in top staff jobs “because they haven’t done it before.”As staff director, he is responsible for hiring interns and full-time employees, and he makes a point of challenging his lieutenants to find candidates “outside of the traditional networks.”“We’re not only showing staffers that they can rise up to the job,” Mr. Casey said, “but showing all members that we can do this job.”Catie Edmondson is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress.  @CatieEdmondson AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTeenagers in The TimesBy The Learning NetworkBelow, the February 2019 edition of Teenagers in The Times. This roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com appears on the first Thursday of each month during the school year.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________EducationSchools in England Introduce a New Subject: MindfulnessAs mental health problems among children increase, the government will try having students practice mindfulness, relaxation and breathing exercises.Why Girls Beat Boys at School and Lose to Them at the OfficeHard work and discipline help girls outperform boys in class, but that advantage disappears in the work force. Is school the problem?A New Model to Stop the Next School Shooting“I’m a psychiatrist, but I’m also a parent. Where do my loyalties lie?,” asks this Opinion essay writer.Parkland Shooting: Where Gun Control and School Safety Stand TodayThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings.Parkland: A Year After the School Shooting That Was Supposed to Change EverythingThose at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School knew their lives would be transformed by the massacre. Many had no idea of the many ways that would happen.Parkland’s Day of Remembrance: Moments of Silence, Reflection and GriefOn a day nobody wanted to remember — or forget — Parkland students were observing a day of mourning for the 17 lives lost a year ago.Building Bots and ConfidenceWith Deilab, students get hands-on lessons in science, technology, engineering, art and math, and they learn about resilience.Women Sue Yale Over a Fraternity Culture They Say Enables HarassmentIn a class-action lawsuit, three women claim Yale has fostered an environment where alcohol-fueled gatherings at fraternity houses dictate the undergraduate social scene.Racist? Fair? Biased? Asian-American Alumni Debate Elite High School AdmissionsWhen it comes to integration at New York City’s most competitive high schools, Asian-American alumni have many different reactions.I’m Not Here to Answer Your Black History Month QuestionsThe burden of explaining black history often falls on black students. That’s not fair.How Much Wealthier Are White School Districts Than Nonwhite Ones? $23 Billion, Report SaysThe report took aim at school district borders, which it said wall off wealthier communities and, crucially, the money their property taxes raise.Going to College Should Not Be a Financial Albatross“Our country has most of the best colleges in the world. Students should be able to afford them, and borrowers should not be crushed by debts,” states this Opinion essay.Colleges Expand Their Reach to Address Mental Health IssuesAs they struggle to keep up with the demand, many schools are hiring more staff members and trying new approaches.One Way to Make College Meaningful“Don’t find yourself; find a vocation,” says this writer.The Two Codes Your Kids Need to KnowThe College Board came up with a surprising conclusion about keys to success for college and life._________Civics, Politics, Economics and Business‘I Am Now Your Mom’: On Twitter, a Pledge of Support for L.G.B.T. YouthsA California woman reached out to L.G.B.T. youths on Twitter, volunteering to be their mom, and an entire tribe of strangers showed up for family duty.Students Skip School Across Europe to Demand Climate ActionIn cities including Berlin, London and Paris, young protesters took to the streets to urge their leaders to combat climate change.Becoming Greta: ‘Invisible Girl’ to Global Climate Activist, With Bumps Along the WayA Swedish girl’s solitary act of civil disobedience has turned her into a symbol for climate action. But her path hasn’t been easy.Sierra Leone Declares National Emergency Over Rape of Young GirlsPresident Julius Maada Bio said a majority of the victims were under 15, and announced measures to combat sexual violence.Family of Shamima Begum, ISIS Teenager, Says Britain Plans to Revoke Her CitizenshipMs. Begum’s family said it was “very disappointed with the Home Office’s intention to have an order made depriving Shamima of her citizenship.”Shamima Begum, British Woman Who Joined ISIS in Syria, Wants to Come HomeMs. Begum, 19, who says she is nine months pregnant, faces an uncertain future, with no clear answers about whether Britain would try to prosecute her.A Locked Door, a Fire and 41 Girls Killed as Police Stood ByGuatemalan officers stood by for nine minutes as the fire raged at a government-run home. It was the culmination of a long history of abuse.14 Children Died in the Parkland Shooting. Nearly 1,200 Have Died From Guns Since.For the project “Since Parkland,” teenage journalists wrote profiles for every child killed by gun violence in the year since the Florida school shooting.A ‘Dreamer’ Goes to WashingtonThursday: We talked to an undocumented Cal State Fullerton student about her trip to the State of the Union.‘It Has Stuck With Me 35 Years’: 11 Childhood Memories of Blackface and Other Racist IncidentsReaders reveal racist behavior they committed or witnessed as children and reflect on how it affects them today.Virginia’s First Lady Apologizes for Handing Cotton to Black Students on TourPam Northam handed raw cotton to children touring the governor’s mansion and asked them to imagine being enslaved and having to pick the crop.Beyond College Campuses and Public Scandals, a Racist Tradition LingersBlackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions, has persisted in fraternity houses and private clubs, occasionally exploding into public view.Covington Students ‘Did Not Instigate’ Lincoln Memorial Encounter, Bishop SaysA report from a detective agency offered a detailed account of what happened between students from a Catholic high school and a Native American man.Why Does Obama Scold Black Boys?“The former president still can’t see the beautiful and complex range of black culture,” according to this Opinion essay writer.Thousands of Immigrant Children Said They Were Sexually Abused in U.S. Detention Centers, Report SaysThere were 4,556 allegations in four years, including a rise in complaints during the Trump administration’s family separation policy.High School Students Are Blanketing My Block in LitterGetting teenagers to clean up after themselves isn’t easy. You might just have to talk to them._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsFrance, Reaching Out to Youth, Takes Its Great Debate to TwitchTen top government officials joined live discussions on Twitch, a platform best known for showing people playing video games.Instagram Bans Graphic Images of Self-Harm After Teenager’s SuicideInstagram and its parent company, Facebook, will no longer allow images of cutting and will make nongraphic photos of self-harm, such as healed scars, more difficult to find.Teenagers Say Depression and Anxiety Are Major Issues Among Their PeersA Pew Research Center survey found that teenagers across all demographic groups grapple with mental health issues.Screen Use at Bedtime May Impair Children’s Quality of LifeUsing screens in a dark room was associated with worse sleep outcomes than using them with the lights on.Why Are We Still Dismissing Girls’ Pain?This Opinion essay states, “People continue to struggle with the idea that women are the authorities on their own bodies.”E-Cigarettes and YouthsNew York City health officials warn of the dangers.Let Children Get Bored AgainBoredom teaches us that life isn’t a parade of amusements. More important, it spawns creativity and self-sufficiency.Girls Get Tech. They Just Need Others to Believe It.New research explores how access to technology helps put girls on par with boys.New Jersey Unveils New Limits on High School Football PracticesPlayers will be limited to 15 minutes of full-contact practice each week under new rules that state officials called the toughest in the country.How a Ballet Dancer Brought Balance to U.C.L.A. GymnasticsValorie Kondos Field, known to many as Miss Val, has created something of an oasis in a sport often characterized by intense turbulence.At Wisconsin High School, Accusations of Body Shaming at a Cheerleading BanquetMembers of a high school cheerleading squad received awards mocking their breasts, backsides and weight, prompting complaints from parents and a warning letter from the A.C.L.U.Dorm Fire Kills 10 Young Players in Brazil, Sending Shudder Through Soccer WorldThe blaze broke out in the early morning at a training center in Rio de Janeiro for teenage players at Flamengo, one of the most famous clubs.The Helicopter Parent Descends on College FootballIn the era of what some academics call “we-parenting,” is it any wonder that parents also suit up in full football uniforms for signing day?_________Arts, Media and Culture‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’ Review: Saving a Village, Using Books and BrainsBased on a true story, Chiwetel Ejiofor’s well-intentioned yet flat directing debut follows a teenage boy whose ingenuity protects his village from famine.‘Giant Little Ones’ Review: The Turmoil of Teenage SexualityThis open-minded drama features strong performances and characters who speak in refreshingly unadorned dialogue.Review: One Cheer for ‘We Are the Tigers’High schoolers, jump scares and songs are a tantalizing mix. But Preston Max Allen’s meandering show squanders a promising concept.‘Wrestle’ Review: On the Mat, Fighting for a FutureRaw and empathetic, Suzannah Herbert and Lauren Belfer’s vérité portrait of four high-school wrestlers disdains forced uplift.The Lustful Middle School Girl RisesThanks to “PEN15,” “Eighth Grade” and “Big Mouth,” the awkward, weird and sex-obsessed pubescent girl is having a moment.Review: ‘PEN15’ Goes Crudely, Sweetly Back to SchoolThe weird kid sister of “Broad City” and “Eighth Grade,” this Hulu comedy remembers middle school painfully well.A Marvel Hero Copes With Bipolar DisorderThe teenage Wasp has inherited her father’s mission for justice. Like him, she must also learn to live with a mental health condition.In a Memoir, Laurie Halse Anderson Gets Personal About RapeAnderson’s novel “Speak” broke open the silence about teenagers and sexual assault. Now “Shout” aims to help other victims find their voices..How the Parkland Shooting Led to a Generation’s Political AwakeningIn his book “Parkland,” Dave Cullen follows the survivors of the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on their quest to change gun laws and heal themselves.In Angie Thomas’s ‘On the Come Up,’ a Young Rapper Finds Her WayThe follow-up to “The Hate U Give” introduces a heroine whose late father was a local hip-hop legend. She has a struggling mom, a venal manager and a ton of talent.Y.A. Thrillers That Put Teenagers to the TestAn emotionless world where feelings are a commodity. A murderer pursuing a homecoming queen. And more, in novels from Karen M. McManus, E.K. Johnston, Lamar Giles and S.E. Grove.In This New Caper Novel, a Yearbook Reveals Family SecretsElinor Lipman’s “Good Riddance” offers an up-to-the-minute look at a young woman’s life in Manhattan.Kids and Culture? There’s So Much to Talk AboutArts writers for The New York Times share their strategies (snacks) and budget-friendly options (outdoor events) in a discussion about introducing children to the arts.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPast TenseThrough images and personal essays by longtime New York Times writers, a vivid look at the man who made baseball truly American.By Eric Moskowitz100 PhotosView Slide Show ›He was born 100 years ago in a red-clay corner of Georgia, though for many Americans, Jackie Robinson burst onto the stage fully formed in 1947, a 28-year-old rookie in Dodger flannels.That’s the enduring image, the Robinson captured on film at Ebbets Field and fixed in the national imagination: the silent but dynamic hero, broad-shouldered and trim, shattering the color barrier as he ropes another liner, dances off third or hook-slides home in a cloud of dust.That vision of Robinson — late to the majors, but still in his playing prime — is on display in this gallery of 100 photographs honoring the centennial of his birth on Jan. 31. Many of the selections come from the archives of The New York Times, rounded out with images from other sources, such as U.C.L.A. and Ebony magazine.As these photos make clear, Robinson’s decade in major-league baseball was just one act in a remarkably rich and complex life — one of vision, fortitude, dignity and endurance — shaped by the currents and contours of American history even as it recast them.There was also Jackie the boy, grandson of slaves, hauled cross-country as a toddler from a life of sharecropping to the promise of Pasadena by a determined single mother, a Great Migration pioneer.And Jackie the amateur athlete, his college exploits chronicled by a booming black press. When The Pittsburgh Courier’s Randy Dixon wrote about the injustice of a segregated sport passing up a star in 1941 — “Exhibit A in So-Called Democracy, the Case of Jackie Robinson” — he didn’t even mean baseball. Robinson had just dazzled in an exhibition between college all-stars and the Chicago Bears, outshining a roster studded with N.F.L. first-round picks.Back then, baseball was his fourth-best sport. When Lt. Jack Roosevelt Robinson faced a court-martial for standing his ground after a civilian driver ordered him to the back of a bus at Camp (now Fort) Hood, African-American papers like The Courier identified him as a “football and basketball star” — though he was also an N.C.A.A. champ in the long jump, a certain Olympian if not for the war.When he joined the Kansas City Monarchs out of the Army, it was an unglamorous means to an end, enduring relentless bus rides for the $100 a week he could send to his mother and save for his own future, envisioning a life as a coach, teacher and athletic director.And then he was the graying Jackie — on the far side of that fateful playing career — the first African-American enshrined in Cooperstown, using his baseball fame not to dabble in civil rights but to dig in full-time.Always, and especially, there was Jackie the husband and father, proud, loving, grieving — honest about the joy and pain in his private life, with his family sharing everything that came with being Jackie Robinson in a flawed nation.As his friend the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. — just 15 when Robinson was court-martialed — would write, “back in the days when integration wasn’t fashionable, he underwent the trauma and the humiliation and the loneliness which comes with being a pilgrim walking the lonesome byways toward the high road of Freedom. He was a sit-inner before the sit-ins, a freedom rider before the Freedom Rides.”At just 53, Robinson succumbed to diabetes and heart disease in 1972. Though he has been gone now nearly as long as he lived, he packed so much into his half-century that his legacy continues to resonate, his foundation helping thousands of students and putting the finishing touches on a museum in Tribeca.These are the images of a ballplayer, a change agent, a human being and humanitarian — of America, in progress.By Claire SmithI did not personally feel the tectonic shift that took place on April 15, 1947, when Robinson made his Dodgers debut. Alas, I did not see Robinson’s first game, nor even his last, a decade later. I came of age years after he played his final game for Brooklyn.But I wish I could say, with a straight face, that I actually heard Robinson’s name while still in the womb. He was, in fact, still on the Dodgers then. And yes, my mother was that big a fan of Robinson and the Dodgers and surely was urging him on out loud while she was pregnant with me. Indeed, tales of the lengths to which she and other family members went in order to listen to Dodgers games on the radio were among my favorite bedtime stories as a child.Click here to read more from Claire Smith, a former Times columnist who was the first woman in the Baseball Hall of Fame.By George VecseyHe upgraded the game, and he upgraded my Brooklyn Dodgers, and he upgraded life in America in his 10 years in the major leagues and in his short but active career out in the Real World, pushing for opportunities for black people in all businesses. He raised the consciousness of Americans, whether they wanted it or not, and that is good reason to honor him on the 100th anniversary of his birth.Click here to read more from George Vecsey’s look at Robinson’s legacy.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTo root for the former home team or not? It’s a question for which there is no right answer, especially in a laid-back city on the ocean.By Ken BelsonSAN DIEGO A question of unrivaled consequence has descended on this picturesque seaside city: Should the good citizens root for or against the Chargers, the football team that abandoned them a season ago but didn’t go really all that far. In years past, the team’s surprising success would be cause for widespread celebration. Fans would proudly wear team jerseys and caps, bars would overflow with viewing parties, and the team would dominate water-cooler talk. The Chargers went 12-4 in the regular season, beat the Baltimore Ravens on the road in an A.F.C. wild-card game, and now have a chance to topple the New England Patriots in Foxborough, Mass., on Sunday in the divisional round.But ambivalence has dominated San Diego’s cool ocean breeze of late. After a long, messy fight over funding for a new stadium in San Diego that was never built, the Chargers left for Los Angeles in 2017, forcing legions of jilted fans to decide whether to follow the team north, or wash their hands of the beloved Bolts.Last year, the team began with four losses and missed the playoffs by a game, which made it easier for bereft fans to move on. Talk radio hosts trashed the team, an angry fan flew scathing banners over the team’s new home in Carson, about a 45-minute drive south of Los Angeles (without traffic), and one restaurant owner gave out free tacos after every Chargers loss.Now the Chargers have returned to the postseason for the first time since 2013, recording their most wins in nearly a decade. The calculus has changed.Some fans are creeping back, making the 100-mile drive to Carson to watch the team or packing team-friendly bars on game days. For other fans, the Chargers’ success has deepened their resentment.“It’s been a civil war and it’s getting worse because the team is good,” said Johnny Abundez, who is part of the fan group Bolt Pride and has been attacked for his continued allegiance. “The fight for San Diego has gotten personal.”The rancor reached a fresh peak this week, after the Chargers upset the Ravens. A detractor on Twitter encouraged people to write bad reviews on Yelp of Cali Comfort BBQ, a sports bar whose owner, Shawn Walchef, who has stood by the Chargers and hosts popular viewing parties on game days.“It’s O.K. to disagree, but not to be disagreeable,” said Walchef, who has four Chargers season tickets at Dignity Health Sports Park, the team’s temporary home.Fans and former fans in San Diego have been bickering for years over whether to support the Chargers, but the effort to destroy someone’s business crossed a line. A host of people jumped to Walchef’s defense, including one of the team’s most vocal opponents, Victor Lopez, who owns El Pollo Grill, a Mexican restaurant.Lopez, 42, is the restaurateur who was so angry that the team abandoned his hometown that he began giving out tacos after the team lost. The lines went out the door on Mondays and Tuesdays after defeats. He has given away about 4,000 tacos, by his estimate, but the publicity has brought Lopez an unexpected windfall. While some Chargers faithful stopped coming to his restaurants, many others have flocked.Lopez said sales were up about 25 percent because of the promotion. “But I’d give it all back to get my team back,” he added.Still, the attacks on Walchef were too much, and Lopez, who said he once received a death threat, has defended his fellow restaurateur. In the spirit of civility, they made a bet: If the Chargers beat the Patriots on Sunday, Lopez will feed Walchef’s staff. If the Patriots come out on top, Walchef will send barbecue to Lopez’s workers. The loser will also donate to a GoFundMe campaign to help a local sports radio show host whose son recently died.The passions over loyalty to the Chargers in San Diego are a distant battle in Los Angeles, where the team is trying to find a foothold. The team plays in a small soccer stadium where visiting fans are often out in force, raising questions about whether the Chargers will be able to fill the 70,000-seat stadium they will share with the Rams starting in 2020.The team’s recent success has eased some of those concerns. Sales of seat licenses at the new stadium being built in Inglewood have been brisk immediately after Chargers victories. Television viewership has ticked up in Los Angeles (and San Diego) after the team pulled off dramatic victories in Seattle, Pittsburgh, Kansas City and Baltimore. The Chargers are hopeful the team’s resurgence will help them lock in key sponsors and a naming-rights partner.“Timing is everything,” Dean Spanos, the team’s owner, said at the Chargers’ practice facility in Costa Mesa this week. “Monday mornings are great when you win the playoffs.”Still, winning over fans in Los Angeles will take time. The Chargers previously played just one season in Los Angeles, in 1960. The city is filled with transplants who root for their hometown team, and locals adopted other teams during the N.F.L.’s two-decade absence from the market.The Rams, who arrived from St. Louis in 2016, have also battled the perception they are unloved in their new/old home. The team has a longer history in Los Angeles, having played in the area for nearly 50 years. But Rams home games are on occasion overflowing with fans of the visiting teams at the cavernous Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.Still, the Rams, who have won their division two straight years, are further ahead than the Chargers. The team’s attendance jumped 14 percent this year, and its television ratings grew 49 percent compared with last season. When the Rams’ game against the Chiefs was moved to Los Angeles from Mexico City, the team sold more than 75,000 tickets in just five days.Kevin Demoff, the Rams’ chief operating officer, said that although it will take years to fully win over fans in the city, interest in the team is likely to grow when its new stadium opens. Already, the team has sold out its inventory of top-priced seat licenses, which cost $100,000 each.“Once you add this new stadium, and the seen-and-be-seen factor, it will dial up the brand,” he said.The Chargers, though, are in an unusual position. While most fans in St. Louis have washed their hands of the Rams, the Chargers’ biggest group of supporters are within driving distance, though many are unwilling to make the trek to Carson.“I understand how the San Diego fans feel,” Spanos said. “I knew coming up here it was going to take maybe a generation to build that kind of fan base.”In the meantime, fans in San Diego are searching for a new identity. Some fans like Walchef plan to buy season tickets at the team’s new stadium. Others support the team but refuse to buy Chargers gear with the words “Los Angeles” on it. A few fans travel to Carson to tailgate but refuse to enter the stadium.The issue has split some families. Dave Abrams, a retired city planner and longtime season-ticket holder, is in the never-again camp. His wife, however, still supports the team. So Abrams has taken to rooting for the Chargers’ opponents.“They left and it was a kick in the gut for me, and I’ve been an anti-fan since then,” said Abrams, who is donating all of his Chargers gear to charity. “My biggest fear is they’ll get to the Super Bowl. We love a lot of the players, like Philip Rivers, but I can’t get past what the ownership did to the city.”Rivers, who has played his entire career with the Chargers, still lives in San Diego. He has urged residents to stay classy amid the consternation.“San Diego will always be special for me, and for many of us,” he said. “You hope that some of those fans can be happy and be excited for the team they cheered for. We know that many of them may not. We know it is a hard decision and position to be in.Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherIf you sat through Sunday’s football-related entertainment, you could be forgiven for swearing off Super Bowls forever.That might be too precipitous. Quite a few recent games have been thrillers with lots of touchdowns and exciting moments.Just last year the Philadelphia Eagles won their first championship in half a century in a 74-point classic. The year before the New England Patriots and Atlanta Falcons battled into overtime. In the last 10 years, we have had Patriots 28-Seattle Seahawks 24, Baltimore Ravens 34-San Francisco 49ers 31 and Giants 21-Patriots 17.Sunday was more of a throwback to the late 1980s and early ’90s, when the Denver Broncos or the Buffalo Bills were getting demolished year after year and Super Bowls let the public down as frequently as Star Wars prequels.And come on now. Was Sunday’s game even really all that bad?Yes. Yes it was.But with the help of a time machine, or something, maybe we can tweak the past just a little and make Sunday’s game just a little more like the recent squeakers.Close your eyes and imagine:The New Orleans Saints brought the N.F.L. title to Bourbon Street with a 49-41 victory over the New England Patriots destined to be a modern classic.Drew Brees led New Orleans’s high-powered offense, which scored 40 or more points six times this season, to one of its most potent results, throwing for six touchdowns.The Saints had found their way into the Super Bowl after Los Angeles Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman was called for eight different penalties after his helmet-to-helmet hit on Tommylee Lewis in the N.F.C. championship game. The Saints scored on the next play, giving the Rams too far to come back.Brees showed veteran poise on Sunday by repeatedly finding Lewis and Michael Thomas. “When you’re a young quarterback who has never been to the big game before, you will make mistakes against a great defense,” Brees said. “Thankfully no one like that faced the Patriots today.”At 41, Tom Brady defied his years with an aerial show of his own that fell just short, taking advantage of a Saints defense that almost seemed to want him to score, just to get the ball back in Brees’s hands.Only special teams fans were disappointed, as neither team ever sent out the punting unit.Here are the fans celebrating:The halftime show by Taylor Swift also got great reviews.The Kansas City Chiefs won their first title since the days of Len Dawson with a 54-51 triumph over the Rams.Patrick Mahomes threw for five touchdowns and ran for one more.The Chiefs had made it into the big game after an overtime victory in the A.F.C. championship; they won the coin toss and marched down the field to score, never giving the Patriots a touch.Every time Mahomes got the ball on Sunday there was a sense that something exciting was about to happen: a no-look pass, a rocket fired into a tiny space, an improvisation that made something out of nothing. About the only thing you knew you weren’t going to get was a punt.The Rams gave as good as they got, with Jared Goff picking apart the unheralded Chiefs defense for three touchdowns of his own. Todd Gurley provided fans of the running game something to cheer with a 100-yard effort.Chiefs Coach Andy Reid kept things interesting, nearly throwing the game away late with puzzling clock management, repeatedly going into full huddle despite trailing with time expiring. But the error just made Mahomes’s eventual touchdown scramble with zero seconds on the clock all the more thrilling.The Chiefs now look poised to become the sport’s new dynasty with the 23-year-old Mahomes ready to star for years to come. But the ageless Brady and the Patriots, the resurgent Eagles or Steelers, the Saints and Rams will have something to say as well. It looks like a golden age of Super Bowls is upon us.The Chiefs hometown paper celebrated:The halftime show by Cardi B. also got great reviews.Now wasn’t that more satisfying? Maybe next year.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byKey moments in Kaepernick’s protests during the national anthem and the league’s response.By Victor MatherWhen Colin Kaepernick sat during the national anthem at an N.F.L. preseason game in 2016, it began a controversy that would involve dozens of players and owners, athletes in other sports and politicians, including the president of the United States.His gesture has led to two and a half years of protests, formal grievances and vigorous denunciations. With a settlement announced Friday in Kaepernick’s grievance case against the N.F.L., one chapter in the saga has come to an end. A timeline:Kaepernick, a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, remains seated during the national anthem for a home preseason game.“I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he tells NFL Media.Kaepernick had been outspoken about issues like protests by white supremacists and police shootings of unarmed black men.“If they take football away, my endorsements from me, I know that I stood up for what is right,” he says.The league initially responds by saying, “Players are encouraged but not required to stand during the playing of the national anthem.”Kaepernick’s act draws praise and criticism. Drew Brees, the quarterback of the New Orleans Saints, tells ESPN: “He can speak out about a very important issue. But there’s plenty of other ways that you can do that in a peaceful manner that doesn’t involve being disrespectful to the American flag.”Kaepernick kneels for the anthem in a preseason game in San Diego, instead of sitting, and is joined by a teammate, Eric Reid. He also announces he will donate $1 million to charitable organizations.“Once again, I’m not anti-American,” Kaepernick says. “I love America. I love people. That’s why I’m doing this. I want to help make America better.”Kaepernick is booed throughout the game by the home Chargers fans.President Barack Obama defends Kaepernick, saying, “I think he cares about some real, legitimate issues that have to be talked about.”Two days later, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., is more equivocal. Referring to Kaepernick, he tells The Associated Press, “I don’t necessarily agree with what he’s doing.”“I support our players when they want to see change in society, and we don’t live in a perfect society,” he adds. “On the other hand, we believe very strongly in patriotism in the N.F.L. I personally believe very strongly in that.”In Week 1 of the regular season, several more players kneel or raise a fist during the anthem. Four days later, Megan Rapinoe of the United States women’s national soccer team also kneels during the anthem. The entire Indiana Fever team of the W.N.B.A. kneels as well, as do other athletes around the country, including, over the next month, some high school players.Kaepernick protests throughout the N.F.L. season. He winds up starting 11 games, and the 49ers finish 2-14. Though the team is bad, Kaepernick’s adjusted yards per pass figure is a respectable 7.2. He has not played since.Kaepernick opts out of his contract, hoping for a better situation. But no offers come, though very average quarterbacks like Mark Sanchez, Mike Glennon, Josh McCown and E.J. Manuel find jobs.Many suggest Kaepernick is being blackballed.The preseason begins with Kaepernick still unsigned. Anthem protests continue, in part prompted by deadly violence in Charlottesville, Va. “The national anthem is a special moment to me,” Goodell says. “It’s a point of pride. That is a really important moment. But we also have to understand the other side that people do have rights and we want to respect those.”Anthem protests reach their peak after President Trump says those players who do not stand for the anthem should be fired. Many players skip the national anthem altogether. Dozens of others kneel or lock arms on the sideline, joined, in some cases, by team owners.Protests continue through the season, and Trump continues to fault the league for not disciplining players.Kaepernick, still unsigned, files a grievance against the N.F.L., accusing all 32 teams of colluding to keep him out of the league.N.F.L. owners, players and league executives meet to discuss the protests. An audio recording obtained by The New York Times reveals that players are aggrieved that Kaepernick has not found a job. Owners are intent on finding a way to avoid Trump’s continued criticism and say that large numbers of fans and sponsors have become angry about the protests.Reid, one of the players at the N.F.L. meeting, files a grievance against the N.F.L., saying the league has blackballed him. He is joined by the players’ union. (Reid is signed by Carolina in late September and plays in 13 games.)N.F.L. owners rule that players can no longer kneel during the national anthem without leaving themselves open to punishment. But the league also says athletes can stay in the locker room while it is being performed.Trump says that he is pleased with the N.F.L.’s new policy, but that he does not think the players should be staying in the locker room in protest. If a player is not standing for the national anthem, Trump says, “maybe you shouldn’t be in the country.”In July, the union files a grievance over the policy.A handful of players protests as the preseason begins, drawing more condemnation from Trump.Kaepernick achieves an important win in his grievance against the N.F.L. An arbitrator, Stephen B. Burbank, says lawyers for Kaepernick had unearthed enough information for the case to proceed to a full hearing.Kaepernick becomes the face and voice of Nike’s latest “Just Do It” campaign. Like so much else involving him over the previous two years, it draws praise and condemnation.During the Super Bowl, Kaepernick posts on his social media accounts images of athletes and celebrities wearing #imwithkap jerseys supporting his cause.The N.F.L. reaches settlements with Kaepernick and Reid in their grievance cases. Terms of the settlements are not disclosed, and the players and the league reach a confidentiality agreement.Victor Mather is a general assignment sports reporter and editor.    AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA blown call and a game-ending 57-yard field goal lifted Los Angeles past New Orleans and into the Super Bowl. By Ben Shpigel, Scott Cacciola and Zach SchonbrunThe triumphant locker room at the Super Dome started out so crowded Sunday night that personal space seemed like an extravagance. But as the room emptied, and the jubilant Los Angeles Rams continued a celebration that would rival any bacchanalia in this city’s French Quarter, the player who helped preserve their season by blatantly breaking the rules stood in the middle of it all, still in full uniform, delighted to answer question after question about his fateful, and fortunate, moment.Amid the mayhem after a 26-23 overtime victory that propelled the Rams past the Saints and into the Super Bowl, that player, cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman, got his first look at the replay of his helmet-to-helmet, fourth-quarter thump on New Orleans receiver Tommylee Lewis. Peering at a reporter’s cell phone, he could see himself slide into view and clobber Lewis before the pass arrived.For Robey-Coleman, it was just visual confirmation for what he already knew — he had been guilty of pass interference on Lewis and somehow had gotten away with it.“I felt more than lucky,” Robey-Coleman said, when asked how he felt when no penalty was called, allowing the Rams to stay within 3 points when the Saints were forced to kick a field goal rather than go for a touchdown. “I felt blessed.”The repercussions of that play will be felt everywhere from the league office, which acknowledged to New Orleans Coach Sean Payton afterward that the officiating crew botched the call, to this mystical city, which will now mourn a second consecutive infuriating exit from the postseason for their beloved Saints. Just 53 weeks ago, the Saints lost in the divisional round of the playoffs when Minnesota scored on a last-second, 61-yard touchdown — nearly the same distance as Greg Zuerlein’s 57-yard field goal that doomed them on Sunday.But in the giddy aftermath of Sunday’s game, the missed call maybe resonated even deeper for a Los Angeles franchise that went 4-12 two seasons ago after relocating to Southern California from St. Louis and entrusted a 30-year-old coaching prodigy, Sean McVay, to return the Rams to prominence. And now, on the 39-year anniversary of their only Super Bowl appearance as a Los Angeles franchise, the Rams have advanced there for the second time.“We walked into the interview saying, ‘How on earth could we hire a 30-year-old? We walked out of the interview saying, ‘How could we not hire Sean McVay?” the Rams’ chief operating officer, Kevin Demoff, said in recalling the decision to hire McVay.“He’s a great football coach,’’ Demoff added. “He’s not a quarterback whisperer. He’s not an offensive genius. Today he found a great way for our team to play complementary football. We kicked two field goals to go to the Super Bowl.”In one night, the Rams vindicated two off-seasons’ worth of bold personnel moves intended to turn a middling team from St. Louis into a champion in Los Angeles. Having pierced the aura of the Superdome, where Payton and quarterback Drew Brees had won their previous six playoff games, the Rams will now face New England on Feb. 3 in Atlanta.It is not a surprise that the Patriots – who also advanced with an overtime victory, by 37-31 at top-seeded Kansas City – will be there. They always are. But the Rams have gotten this far because, at bottom, every move they made after losing to Atlanta in the playoffs last year, all the off-season splurges and in-season roster churn, positioned them to thrive amid the jackhammer-in-your-ear din that they confronted on Sunday in the Superdome.“We didn’t feel pressure,” said cornerback Aqib Talib, one of several new players on the Rams’ revamped defense. “We applied it.”This N.F.C. title-game matchup registered somewhere between sunrise and sunset on the inevitability scale. Since September, New Orleans and Los Angeles had jockeyed for the conference’s top seed, with one coaching mastermind named Sean striving to duplicate the success of another. No other matchup embodied the season’s offensive boom better than having the conference’s most prolific teams — who combined for 80 points in the Saints’ Week 9 home victory over the Rams — vying to outscore each other for a second time.On Sunday, a full quarter elapsed before the Rams looked comfortable — or, at least, they no longer looked sleeping-above-an-alligator-pit uncomfortable — and then gradually, they chiseled away at the Saints’ lead. They trailed by 13 after the first quarter but by just 3 at halftime and ultimately tied the score, at 20-20, on Zuerlein’s 24-yarder with 5:03 left in the game.The other day in the Saints’ cafeteria, Brees, newly 40, glanced up and saw himself on television. The channel was showing the N.F.C. championship game from 2010, the last time New Orleans played in the Super Bowl. His teammates ribbed him about all the hair he had nine years ago, all the hair he seems to have lost.Seizing the chance Sunday to lead them to another, Brees drove the Saints to the Rams’ 13. On third-and-10, Lewis scooted out of the backfield and ran a wheel route. Brees saw him and released a pass down the near sideline — the Saints’ sideline — toward Lewis, who was now inside the 5-yard line. The ball never reached him. Robey-Coleman made certain of that.The officiating crew, which could have called any number of penalties on the play — pass interference and unnecessary roughness among them — opted to call none. The referee, Bill Vinovich, told a pool reporter that he “personally” had not seen what occurred.The Saints protested. Payton ranted and screamed. The public-address announcer admonished fans not to throw debris onto the field. Instead of scoring a touchdown or draining time off the clock, the Saints settled for Wil Lutz’s 31-yard field goal that put them ahead by 23-20.“It was simple: They blew the call,” Payton said.For the Rams and for Jared Goff, the quarterback who blossomed under McVay’s tutelage and became one of the best in the league, 101 seconds remained to tie or even win the game. Goff, who overcame a first-quarter interception to complete 25 of 40 passes for 297 yards and a touchdown, proceeded to direct the Rams into field-goal range, and Zuerlein equalized from 48 yards with just 15 seconds left in the fourth quarter.After winning the overtime coin toss, knowing that a touchdown would win the game but a field goal would return the ball to the Rams, New Orleans faced a 2nd-and-16 at its 34. Charging on a stunt, Rams linebacker Dante Fowler, acquired from Jacksonville by the trade deadline, reached Brees and hit him in the wrist as he threw, causing his pass to float. Safety John Johnson, defending Michael Thomas, watched the ball reach its apex from his back. He barely moved as he intercepted it.“I saw it the whole way,” Johnson said. “I’m glad I got my contacts in. I probably would have dropped it if I didn’t.”Goff ran back onto the field, the Rams with the ball at their own 46, five plays from deliverance, and General Manager Les Snead said it all felt akin to climbing the 18th green at Augusta National Golf Club.“The hole gets smaller,” Snead said.Demoff harked back to a conversation he had with Goff after that miserable 2016 season, when he lost all seven of his starts. Goff told him that he knew how to turn around the franchise since, he said, he had done it in college, at Berkeley. “I know we’re not that far,” Goff told him at the time, and indeed the Rams weren’t.They won a second consecutive N.F.C. West title this season. They beat Dallas last week, and when Zuerlein went on to kick his 57-yarder, they had conquered New Orleans as well. The fact that the referees helped the Rams, too, won’t make them any less proud.“The referee made the call, we respect it,” Robey-Coleman said. “Now I’m going to the Super Bowl. Nobody can change that.”— Ben Shpigel[The New England Patriots beat the Kansas City Chiefs, 37-31, in the A.F.C. championship game Sunday, and will face the winner of this game in the Super Bowl. See how they did it here.]Here’s how the Rams beat the Saints:He’s known as Greg the Leg for a reason.A 57-yard kick by Zuerlein has sent the Los Angeles Rams to the Super Bowl for the first time since 2001. What a turnaround by Goff and the Rams, who trailed by 13 in an incredibly loud and hostile stadium, and largely orchestrated that comeback without their Pro Bowl running back, Todd Gurley.— Zach SchonbrunAnd the most accurate quarterback in N.F.L. history is picked off in overtime.Brees’s arm was hit as he threw, leaving a ball that hung in the air. Rams defender John Johnson came down with the interception as he was falling down on his back in Saints’ territory. Los Angeles can now win it with a field goal.— Zach SchonbrunHello, overtime. The Rams got down to the 31 yard line, but the Saints defense held firm, and a 48-yard field goal by Greg Zuerlein tied the game with 19 seconds left. The Saints elected to kneel it to send it to the extra period.But that no-call on the Lewis play on the last drive continues to look worse and worse. Saints Coach Sean Payton is still pleading his case to the referees and the fans are still booing. Hard to believe.— Zach SchonbrunSaints settle for a field goal to take a 23-20 lead and give the Rams back the ball with 1 minute 41 seconds left and one timeout. But the Saints and the fans were upset that Rams cornerback Robey-Coleman hit Tommylee Lewis early on a pass out in the flat. Both players went up for the ball, but Coleman connected with Lewis before the ball touched him. Fans are booing and, from replay, it certainly looked like the flag should have been thrown there. That could have ended the game because the Saints could have run down the clock before kicking a field goal. Once again, an N.F.L. playoff game could be decided by the referees.— Zach SchonbrunYou just knew the Saints were going to try to take a shot downfield at some point. They've been thriving on their usual mix of underneath passes and creative screens, but, with time ticking down to the two-minute warning, Brees finally uncorked a bomb to Ted Ginn Jr., who out-leaped the safety Lamarcus Joyner for the ball 43 yards downfield. The Saints are now in the red zone with three timeouts and less than two minutes left.— Zach SchonbrunAfter trailing 13-0, the Rams have climbed back to tie it with just about five minutes remaining. After starting the drive on their own 9-yard line, Goff drove his team all the way down the field, and a rush by C.J. Anderson was stopped on the 1-yard line. Rams Coach Sean McVay likes to be aggressive, but going for it on fourth down and passing up the chance to tie was a bit too risky even for him. So after a field goal, we are all even.— Zach SchonbrunThat was a huge series for the Saints defense, which forced the Rams to punt from their own 12-yard line — and just when the Rams looked to be seizing momentum (again). Add in a personal foul against the Rams on the punt, and the Saints will take over at the Rams' 46.— Scott CacciolaRams continue to gash the Saints for big yardage plays, just as they did against the Dallas Cowboys last week. Brandin Cooks now has 100 yards receiving after a 25-yard catch and run. An end around by Josh Reynolds then went for 16 yards all the way to the 1-yard line, setting up a touchdown pass to Tyler Higbee to make it 20-17. After the score, Higbee immediately put his finger to his lips. Shhhhhhhh. (Don't think the Saints fans will listen, though).— Zach SchonbrunSo much for the Rams’ momentum. After they went three-and-out on their opening series of the second half, the Saints took over and marched down the field. Their 12-play, 71-yard drive culminated in a 2-yard touchdown pass from Brees to Taysom Hill, the team’s third-string quarterback. (!) But really, that drive was all about Alvin Kamara, the Saints’ do-everything tailback. Kamara caught four passes for 34 yards and ran once for 6 yards, sparking New Orleans — and the crowd is once again in a tizzy.— Scott CacciolaDon't count the Rams out yet. They turned up the defensive pressure on Brees, sacking him on consecutive plays. Then two big throws by Jared Goff to Brandin Cooks — including a beautiful 31-yard completion to the 6-yard line — have put the Rams right back in it. A touchdown run by Gurley (remember him?) makes it a 13-10 game at halftime.— Zach SchonbrunThat series was the best possible sequence of events for the Rams. Not only did Gurley get involved with the touchdown run — welcome back, Todd — but the Rams also absolutely silenced the crowd before halftime. And don't forget: The Rams will get the ball to start the second half.— Scott CacciolaSomething to watch: The Rams have gone away from Todd Gurley, their All-Pro running back, since that early pass that wound up being an interception slipped through his hands. C.J. Anderson, signed late in the regular season when Gurley was sidelined with a knee injury, has been getting the bulk of the carries in his place. Anderson and Gurley were both terrific last weekend in the Rams' divisional-round victory over the Dallas Cowboys.— Scott CacciolaSpecial teams are already a factor in this game, which features two of the best and most creative units in the league.On the Rams’ last drive, Coach Sean McVay made the gutsy call to fake the punt and throw a pass on 4th and 5, which finally gave the Rams some offensive momentum. (The result was a field goal to get on the board, 13-3).On the other side, the Saints’ special teams were the most efficient in the N.F.L. this season, led by the well-respected Mike Westhoff. And they love to employ Taysom Hill in innovative ways.— Zach SchonbrunIf there's one word to sum this game up so far, it might be noise. It is so loud inside this building. And just to give Saints fans a friendly nudge, the game operations department here keeps flashing a giant "MAKE NOISE" sign on the Jumbotron, with flames licking all the letters. Noise, of course, is part of the strategy. Veterans in the press box who have been to many sports events here at the Superdome are saying this is the loudest they've heard it — and the noise is clearly affecting the Rams. Jared Goff had the experience of playing against the Saints here earlier this season, but suffice it to say the atmosphere was slightly more muted back in November than it is today.— Scott CacciolaFifteen. That's the total yardage for the Rams in the first quarter, their lowest total for a quarter this season. That does not include a single first down. And they're facing another third down when the second quarter begins. More alarming: The crowd noise at the Superdome caused the Rams to commit a false start AFTER they had just called a timeout … because of the crowd noise.— Zach SchonbrunIt’s starting to look like a nightmarish start for the Rams in New Orleans.In the red zone for a third time already in the first quarter, the Saints brought their do-everything backup quarterback Taysom Hill in on third down but could not convert the run-pass option play. No matter: New Orleans brought Brees back onto the field on 4th and 2 from the 10-yard line, and he got the Rams to jump offside.On the next play, two Rams defenders ran into each other, and Brees found Garrett Griffin wide open in the end zone. 13-0 New Orleans.Los Angeles looks completely out of sorts on defense. But the Saints have that effect on a lot of teams.— Zach SchonbrunIt’s probably worth noting the colossal difference in time of possession here so far: While the Rams have had the ball for a grand total of 3 minutes 9 seconds, the Saints have had it for 10:16. The Rams’ defense is already working hard, and probably did well to limit the Saints to two field goals on their first two series. Goff and his offense could do the defense a huge favor by keeping the ball here for more than another three-and-out.— Scott CacciolaOn the N.F.L.'s radio broadcast, they are reporting that Rams quarterback Jared Goff was having problems with the audio inside his helmet, meaning he couldn't hear Coach Sean McVay. The Rams are hoping that the issue is resolved.— Scott CacciolaOh boy. New Orleans forces a turnover as a dropped pass by Todd Gurley goes right into the arms of Saints linebacker Demario Davis on the Rams' own 16-yard line. It was L.A.'s first turnover in three games, and it gives New Orleans a chance to take a commanding early start.— Zach SchonbrunIt did not take long for Drew Brees to make a little history. With his third completion of the Saints’ opening drive, he passed the great Dan Marino for sixth on the all-time postseason completions list with 385. Incidentally, the Rams made an unusual decision to defer after winning the coin toss, giving the Saints the ball to start — a small gamble when Brees is the opposing quarterback and this crowd is fired up. (The kids might refer to the Superdome as “lit.”) All things considered the Rams were fortunate to get off the field after giving up just a field goal.— Scott CacciolaThe last time the Los Angeles Rams and New Orleans Saints met, they combined for 80 points and 970 yards of offense, and the Saints ended the Rams’ dreams of going undefeated the entire season.Here is what to know now:The winner gets to go to the Super Bowl, to face the winner of the AF.C. championship game. That matchup features the Kansas City Chiefs and New England Patriots (6:40 p.m. Eastern, CBS). Click here for our preview of that game.The Rams have added two critical pieces: Aqib Talib and C.J. Anderson. Talib has noticeably improved the secondary, and Anderson has shown to be a valuable running option beside Todd Gurley.Saints quarterback Drew Brees ended the season with 74,437 passing yards, after breaking Peyton Manning’s record early in the season. Click here for a timeline charting how offense took over the N.F.L. Ben Shpigel is a sports reporter and has covered the N.F.L. and the New York Jets since 2011. He has also covered the New York Yankees and, before that, the Mets. He previously worked for The Dallas Morning News.  @benshpigel AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Billy Witz, Jennifer Medina and Tim ArangoLOS ANGELES — On the palm-tree-lined campus of the University of Southern California this week, a tour guide proudly pointed out to prospective students the university’s six Heisman football trophies and award-winning faculty, testaments to the stellar reputation the school has fought hard to build.Yet only a day earlier, U.S.C. had emerged at the epicenter of an unfolding college admissions scandal involving federal charges of bribery, cheating and parents who were willing to pay thousands of dollars to get their underperforming children into some of the nation’s top universities.Of the nearly three dozen parents named in court documents unveiled this week, more than half are accused of bribing their way into the elite private campus in the heart of Los Angeles. Four U.S.C. athletics officials are charged with taking bribes, more than the number named at any other school. Donna Heinel, one of the university’s top athletics administrators, helped get more than two dozen students admitted as athletes, federal prosecutors charged, though none of them were qualified to play competitive sports.[Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.]Reeling from what was only the latest scandal to unfold over the past two years, campus officials insisted this week that U.S.C. was a victim in the bribery and cheating case and vowed to reject any applicants involved in fraudulent admissions.Six students who applied for admission this fall were involved in the alleged bribery scheme, officials said, and would be rejected. The university was still investigating how many current students were also implicated.“This will not set us back in any way,” Wanda Austin, the interim president, said in an interview. “We have parents who set a horrible example, and employees who clearly acted in a way that showed they need to be fired.”The campus today is far different from the one students encountered decades ago when the school was better known as a home for the children of Los Angeles’s wealthy elite, snidely referred to as the “University of Spoiled Children.” In the 1990s, the university began an extensive overhaul, building on its reputation as an athletic powerhouse and ranking academically among the nation’s top-tier schools.It recruited star faculty, including six Nobel laureates, and raised standards for admission, admitting last year only 13 percent of those who applied. The campus also made a major investment in its athletic programs, winning national football championships, while also drawing top athletes to play tennis, water polo, volleyball and track.But a series of corruption scandals has torn through the university, threatening those years of image building.In 2017, the medical school dean was fired over accusations of drug use and prostitution, and his successor resigned after allegations of sexual harassment. After yet another scandal emerged in 2018, involving a campus gynecologist accused of sexual misconduct, the university’s president, C.L. Max Nikias, was forced to step down. Then at the end of last year, the dean of the business school was ousted over the mishandling of workplace misconduct claims.How the university built itself up only to be undermined by such profound internal turmoil has left students, parents, faculty and the vast Trojan alumni network wondering whether the university can manage to maintain its stature. It has also prompted many to begin asking: Has the push to raise money to boost the school’s programs gone too far? Is everything at U.S.C. for sale?Josh Meltzer, who graduated in 2002, said he has been alarmed by the “apparently constant lack of ethical and responsible leadership” in the last several years.“U.S.C. prides itself on creating this massive Trojan family and alumni are constantly asked to support the university with donations, but it’s hard to imagine doing that right now,” Mr. Meltzer said. “When I was a freshman I looked around at our class and was proud it certainly wasn’t all rich kids — we were coming from a lot of diverse backgrounds and had done really well in high school.”Ms. Austin has vowed to have more accountability and transparency and said that the school would reject any current applicants who are connected to the bribery scheme. She and others at the campus have expressed shock at the brazen willingness of parents, as described in the charging documents, to subvert the admissions system.In one conversation referred to in the indictment and captured by a wiretap, a Beverly Hills marketing executive, Jane Buckingham, discussed how to get her son into U.S.C. with William Singer, the admissions counselor who has pleaded guilty to organizing the bribery and cheating scheme. She admitted that it was a reach.“I need you to get him into U.S.C., and then I need you to cure cancer and [make peace] in the Middle East,” Ms. Buckingham said.“I can do that,” Mr. Singer replied.[Read the full list of who has been charged here.]Yet even the chairman of the university’s board of trustees, Rick J. Caruso, a Los Angeles real estate developer, emerged with a personal connection: As prosecutors announced that the Hollywood star Lori Loughlin was being charged with bribing her daughter’s way into U.S.C., the daughter was on Mr. Caruso’s yacht, sharing a spring break vacation in the Bahamas with Mr. Caruso’s daughter.“My daughter and a group of students left for spring break prior to the government’s announcement yesterday,” Mr. Caruso said in a statement. “Once we became aware of the investigation, the young woman decided it would be in her best interest to return home.”The bribery allegations, he said, were “just unthinkable.”Mark Piccirillo, who was visiting the campus from Dallas this week with his daughter, a high school junior, said he was disappointed but not surprised to learn about the bribes. He said the case affirmed his long-held belief that the system was rigged in favor of the rich and privileged.“The one thing that bothers me about the whole thing is it’s hard enough to get in regularly,” he said. “My guess is this is the tip of the iceberg.”The center of the scandal swirled around the school’s athletics department, which over the years has been the most visible way the school presents itself to the world. As the bribery case made clear, the system to recruit student athletes — who are already sometimes held to lesser academic standards than other students — can be subject to manipulation.“The fact that there is this entirely separate system for athletes’ admission and recruitment that frankly lends itself to corruption and abuse is really disturbing,” said Ariela Gross, a law professor at the university. “There’s the broader class issue of wealthy people buying access or stacking the deck in normal, legal ways.”At one time, there was no better symbol of the renaissance at U.S.C. than the football team.The Trojans, behind a charismatic coach, Pete Carroll, eagerly filled the professional football void left in Los Angeles by the departure of the Rams and the Raiders.Mr. Carroll, who was hired in 2000, built a juggernaut, winning 45 of 46 games at one point with teams that were as entertaining as they were dominating, routinely packing the cavernous Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.As the building boom in and around campus took root, investment continued in athletics, which, thanks to football’s rejuvenation, had seen revenues double to $76 million over an eight-year period. A long-awaited basketball arena, a state-of-the-art tennis stadium and a glistening new administration building were built, fortifying programs like water polo, tennis and track and field, which continued to chase national championships and produce a steady stream of Olympians.But football was hit by its own recruitment scandal nearly a decade ago.The team’s stars back then were treated as such, receiving the Hollywood treatment.Snoop Dogg hovered near the end zone during games and ran pass patterns at practice. Denzel Washington, Jamie Foxx and Spike Lee stood along the sidelines, regularly flanked by professional athletes.But it came crumbling down in 2010 when the National Collegiate Athletic Association, after a clumsy, contentious and lengthy investigation into whether football and basketball players had received illegal gifts from agents, hit the school with crippling penalties.The university moved swiftly to recover. Mr. Nikias succeeded Steven B. Sample as president that same year and began building the school into a fund-raising powerhouse. For the last several years, it has been one of the top universities in annual fund-raising, along with Harvard and Stanford, raising $6 billion in a recent campaign.Mr. Nikias used the N.C.A.A. sanctions as the impetus to clean house — firing the athletic director, Mike Garrett, himself a former Heisman Trophy winner. Mr. Nikias also beefed up the rules compliance office, hiring a prominent Los Angeles lawyer, and soon had a nine-person staff.“We’re going to have a culture of compliance,” Pat Haden, the replacement U.S.C. athletic director, told The New York Times at the time. “We’re going to think about it in the morning, think about it before we go to bed. We’re going to have issues but we’ll fess up and be better than the way before.”As part of the restructuring, one administrator was soon thrust into a more prominent role — Ms. Heinel, a former college swimmer.Ms. Heinel now stands accused of collecting more than $1.3 million in payments directed from parents through Mr. Singer between 2014 and 2018, and drawing $20,000 per month from Mr. Singer since last July through a sham consultant agreement.Ms. Heinel, who came to U.S.C. in 2003, was fired Tuesday along with Jovan Vavic, the hugely successful water polo coach who was charged in the current affidavit with accepting $250,000 from Mr. Singer. Two former U.S.C. soccer coaches — Ali Khosroshahin and his assistant, Laura Janke — have been charged with taking $350,000 from Mr. Singer. So, too, has Bill Ferguson, the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, who led the men’s team at U.S.C. for a decade before leaving in 2016. He is accused of accepting $100,000 from Mr. Singer.The recent scandals haven’t appeared to dim the university’s powerful lure for prospective students. This year, U.S.C. received close to 66,000 applicants, its largest pool ever, with the highest collective grade point averages and SAT scores ever recorded.Yet in the aftermath of the latest news, many faculty and students said they felt betrayed and angered.“I’m infuriated by what happened and what she did,” said Tom Walsh, a former U.S.C. track and cross-country coach, who left in 2013 after 19 years at the school, referring to Ms. Heinel. “I felt like our program, we got denied a few people that we thought were going to get into our program, legit track and field international stars. Now, you look back and wonder why they didn’t get in. Did they make space for these phony people?”Summer Dahlquist-Tookey, 18, a freshman, said that for her, the indictments had only underscored the role money played in the admissions process. “From the moment I stepped onto U.S.C.’s campus, I noticed how wealthy most of the students were,” she said. “I have classmates who have the same last names as buildings on campus. Once we hear that, we basically know how they got in.”Dan Levin contributed reporting from New York.OpinionRachel L. Harris and Lisa TarchakAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jeannette Catsoulis“What did they do with that girl?,” an unseen male asks as the peaceful opening shots of the documentary “Roll Red Roll” reveal a quiet, darkening street lined with tidy family homes. The skin-crawling audio continues, others now joining a conversation pocked with callousness and nervous giggles: “She is so raped right now.”With bone-chilling explicitness, the director Nancy Schwartzman lays out exactly what happened to “that girl” at the hands of high-school football stars in Steubenville, Ohio, in 2012. Picking at the scab of respectability, she reveals a football-crazed culture of misogyny and entitlement that resulted in the brutal abuse of an unwary teenager too inebriated to recall her ordeal. Fortunately, the cellphones and social-media accounts of her attackers and their friends would remember for her.Assembling these repugnant posts and videos (cannily captured and published at the time by the industrious crime blogger and interviewee Alexandria Goddard) into a timeline of casual depravity, Schwartzman deepens her dive and widens her reach. What emerges is an infuriating portrait of sports-mad solidarity and victim-blaming that would eventually attract worldwide attention and prompt the investigative reporter Rachel Dissell to wonder if Steubenville was “putting its daughters at risk by protecting its sons.”A tough but essential watch, “Roll Red Roll” documents how a sexual assault in a declining Appalachian town became an international cause célèbre. Shots of near-empty streets and an abandoned steel mill provide a melancholy frame for behavior that seems horrifyingly incomprehensible.“I can’t wait for this story to go away,” an unseen radio jock says near the end. Now that part I understand.Movie data powered by IMDb.comNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisThe United States Copyright Office said that a dance first popularized on the TV show “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” could not be copyrighted by the actor who created it, according to court documents filed this week.Alfonso Ribeiro, the actor who played Carlton on the show, is one of several performers who have sued video game makers in recent months saying that dances, which can be purchased and then performed by avatars in games, have been stolen from them. Mr. Ribeiro sued Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite Battle Royale, as well as Take-Two Interactive Software, which makes NBA 2K16.But the copyright office was not convinced that what Mr. Ribeiro called the Carlton Dance — in which he enthusiastically swings his arms and sways his hips — was eligible for copyright protection, saying it was a “simple routine,” not complex enough to clear the bar.“That does not surprise me in the least,” said Robert Brauneis, co-director of the intellectual property program at George Washington University Law School.“It’s like a word or a short phrase,” Professor Brauneis said. “The copyright office has always taken the position that words or phrases are not copyrightable, and this is exactly like a word or a phrase in a dance. You could repeat that word or phrase indefinitely — here I’m shaking my hips, here I’m shaking my hips, again and again — but that repetition doesn’t make the fragment subject to copyright protection.”Courts are not bound by the copyright office’s decision and could reach a different conclusion, but Professor Brauneis said the copyright office’s determination would be taken into consideration.Mr. Ribeiro’s lawyer, David L. Hecht, said he planned to ask the copyright office to reconsider, because even if the individual movements are considered simple, the way his clients have arranged those movements should be considered choreographic works.“It’s the same as when you combine notes in a musical composition,” he said. “Those compilations would be entitled to copyright protection under the law.”Mr. Hecht said that Mr. Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications. Two have now been rejected and one is still under consideration. Mr. Hecht said that a request for copyright by the rapper 2 Milly was rejected when he tried to register the Milly Rock, and that he too will ask that the copyright office reconsider. But some of his clients have had better luck. Russell Horning, a teenager known as “Backpack Kid,” was able to register with the office a 30-second dance that Mr. Hecht described as a “variant” of a dance called the Floss.Epic Games and Take-Two Interactive declined to comment on Friday.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNo RegretsVictoria Beckham hosted a dinner for a Sotheby’s auction. A benefit jazz concert in honor of Michael Brecker.11 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ben Widdicombe“I have to say, it’s very posh,” Victoria Beckham said in a second-floor dining room at the Frick Collection, where windows overlooking Central Park were punctuated by gilt-framed oil paintings.The dinner party of 30, which included art-world professionals, junior varsity billionaires and foreign royals, held its breath. Had the artist formerly known as Posh Spice, routinely caricatured by British tabloids as a humorless mannequin, just made a self-aware joke?“It’s a very posh dinner that we’re having here tonight,” Ms. Beckham repeated, giving the room permission to laugh.Ms. Beckham paid a whistle-stop visit to New York City last Thursday to promote her fashion line, a collaboration with Reebok and a Sotheby’s auction of old masters by female artists. Marketed as “The Female Triumphant,” the auction contains 21 works painted by 14 women between the 16th and 19th centuries, with pre-sale estimates of up to $6 million.A pop star turned fashion designer may seem like an unlikely figurehead for a sale of old masters. But as in Titian’s 1545 masterpiece “The Descent of the Holy Ghost,” Ms. Beckham’s luminous celebrity cast its glow both at Sotheby’s galleries during a V.I.P. preview and the intimate dinner that followed.“Myself and David, we don’t claim to know an enormous amount about art,” Ms. Beckham said, referring, of course, to David Beckham, her footballer husband. “But when I first came to the Frick a few years ago, I fell in love with the old masters. And then I got introduced to the team at Sotheby’s, so I’ve been learning more.”Dining on potatoes dauphinois and tough pucks of beef were Xavier Salomon, the Frick’s chief curator; Aimee Ng, an associate curator; Mario Sorrenti, the fashion photographer; Prince Pavlos and Princess Marie-Chantal of Greece; and Larry and Toby Milstein, the young philanthropists and séance enthusiasts.Casey Kohlberg, a young producer of short films, said she had been a fan of Ms. Beckham’s since her pop music days, and owned several items from her fashion line. She bonded with a table mate, Melissa Jacobs, about role-playing the Spice Girls with their friends in middle school.And which one of the group had they portrayed?The two young women declined to answer, but each stole a look at the woman sitting at the head of the table.There was a moment, at Jazz at Lincoln Center on Monday night, when music made the world’s problems go away.Around 500 well-heeled New Yorkers paid up to $10,000 each to attend the Nearness of You concert in honor of the saxophonist Michael Brecker, who died in 2007. The overclass guests included Len Blavatnik, a bare-knuckled mogul valued by Forbes at $16.5 billion; Leon Black, a private equity pooh-bah; Jo Carole Lauder, wife of Ronald Lauder; and Charles Rockefeller. They raised more than $1.3 million for cancer research at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center.Bernie Williams, an accomplished jazz musician and a 16-year veteran of the New York Yankees, opened the show with a sublime arrangement of “Take Me Out to the Ball Game.”For the three minutes Mr. Williams played, the big-screen view of Midtown Manhattan through the floor-to-ceiling windows acquired the magic of a Woody Allen movie (before #MeToo).Traffic on Central Park South became intertwined rivers of diamonds and rubies, flowing in opposite directions. The statue of Christopher Columbus straightened its back. Even an ugly construction elevator, lifting and dropping against the growing bones of a new ivory tower on West 57th Street, borrowed the lilting grace of a conductor’s wrist.When it was over, and the room was mute with awe, the host Padma Lakshmi said: “That was the most beautiful version of the song I ever heard.”Then Hugh Jackman took the stage in a tight sweater, and the audience snapped back to attention.Other performers included James Taylor, Patti Austin and Harolyn Blackwell. None of the stars, or the more prominent guests, attended the after-party, making it slim pickings for a social columnist.The music was pretty, though.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Laura ParkerIn the coming adventure video game Sea of Solitude, the main character — a young woman named Kay — navigates a partly submerged city as she faces a multitude of red-eyed scaly creatures.None are as terrifying as her own personal demons. As the game progresses, Kay realizes the creatures she is encountering are humans who turned into monsters when they became too lonely. To save herself, she fights to overcome her own loneliness.Kay was modeled after the game’s creative director, Cornelia Geppert of Jo-Mei Games, an independent game studio, who struggled after a 2013 breakup. “I felt like I was trapped in a cage,” Ms. Geppert, 37, said of her experience.Sea of Solitude, which Electronic Arts will publish this year, is among a growing number of video games that are tackling mental health issues.Last year, a game called Celeste explored depression and anxiety through a protagonist who had to avoid physical and emotional obstacles. In 2017’s fantasy action-adventure video game Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice, a young Celtic warrior deals with psychosis.Other games in recent years, including Night in the Woods and Pry, have delved into self-identity, anger issues and post-traumatic stress disorder. All followed the 2013 interactive fiction game Depression Quest, which asked players to step into the shoes of a character living with depression.These games are a far cry from the industry’s better-known story lines of battlefield heroics or the zombie apocalypse. But as a cultural conversation around mental health grows louder, makers of content are responding. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, one in five American adults lives with a mental illness.“Mental health is becoming a more central narrative in our culture, with greater efforts to normalize mental health challenges,” said Eve Crevoshay, executive director of Take This, a nonprofit that educates video game developers on best practices around portraying mental health. “With that trend comes response from creative industries, including games.” (Take This was founded in 2013 after the suicide of a video game journalist prompted a debate about the issue.)To date, most of the games tackling mental health have come from independent makers, which are typically more willing and able to take risks by exploring unusual subject matter. Sea of Solitude points to a shift: a gamble by Electronic Arts, one of the industry’s largest publishers and better known for its Madden football and Battlefield war games, to invest in the topic.“We were immediately captivated by Connie’s passion and artistic vision for Sea of Solitude, which is unique, beautifully realized and made more powerful by being an important one,” said Rob Letts, general manager of EA Originals, the label focused on publishing independent games.Some in the industry said the interactive nature of games made them more effective than film or television at dealing with mental health. Embodying a video game character who suffers from depression might leave a deeper impression of the challenges of the illness than simply watching a film about the same character, for example.Video games can be “a more effective way of bouncing back from negative moods than passive forms of media like TV or movies,” said Raffael Boccamazzo, a mental health practitioner in Seattle who works with Take This.That was what Sam Rodriguez, 26, experienced after playing one of these video games, Night in the Woods. Ms. Rodriguez, a freelance writer in Atlanta, said a diagnosis of bipolar disorder last year had left her feeling isolated and lost.But she said she felt a connection to the protagonist of Night in the Woods, Mae, a college dropout who returns to her hometown but struggles to reconnect with family and friends. Ms. Rodriguez’s first play-through of the game was extremely emotional, she said, because “I was able to experience the world through the eyes of someone like me, who felt helpless and aimless in life.” She added that she felt especially drawn to Mae’s use of sarcasm to deflect and bury her own problems.While Ms. Rodriguez was already in treatment, she said, the game motivates her to be more honest and receptive with her therapist. She has since become an ambassador in a Take This program, in which she regularly discusses mental health on her social media channels and on the live-streaming platform Twitch.Makers of mental health games said they had seen a similar reaction from other players. After the 2016 simulation role-playing game Stardew Valley — which does not punish players for not completing tasks and creates a slow-paced atmosphere where the objective is to take care of a run-down farm — was released, Eric Barone, the game’s creator, received hundreds of messages, he said. Players wrote to share their stories of how the game helped them cope with difficult periods in their lives.“One story that comes to mind is a person whose little brother had autism, and as a result had great difficulty in relating with him,” said Mr. Barone, 31. “But playing Stardew Valley caused him to open up and allowed the two brothers to bond in a way that was never possible before.”Some makers are now developing games to explicitly promote better mental health. Orpheus Self Care Entertainment, a start-up that was founded last year, is publishing virtual reality games in which players practice mindfulness and meditation through activities like dancing. In one game, players move their bodies in virtual reality to create patterns and shapes that move and change color.IThrive Games Foundation, a nonprofit that aims to improve mental health in teenagers through games and education, is also working on a new mobile game for teenagers who suffer from anxiety. The nonprofit is experimenting with a few different game styles — from role-playing to choose-your-own-adventure — for it. IThrive hopes to test the game by next year.“Asking someone to play with you sets a very different vibe than asking someone to talk about their problems,” said Kelli Dunlap, iThrive’s director of mental health research.Ms. Crevoshay of Take This said the games industry was at a tipping point in how it accepted and embraced mental health challenges. She said she wanted to see more mainstream developers tackle the topic and more support for gamers who spoke out about these challenges.“We know these are not easy changes to make,” she said. “But we want to try.”An earlier version of this article misstated the position of Raffael Boccamazzo, who is a mental health practitioner, not a clinical psychologist.Follow Laura Parker on Twitter: @lauraannaparker.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNo RegretsWhy hang out with the dripping wet hordes at Times Square when you can hobnob with the well-heeled at the Metropolitan Opera? 12 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ben Widdicombe“I don’t know how anything will turn out when you’ve got this much rain,” said Ryan Seacrest, as cold water sluiced through his gelled hair and off his angular chin.As host of “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” in Times Square, Mr. Seacrest is used to New York’s unpredictable winter weather. Last year it was just 9 degrees; Monday night was milder, but brought an inch of rain.“I prefer the rain versus last year’s cold,” he said, despite being drenched to the skin in black J. Brand jeans and a white shirt from his own fashion line.Nearby, his co-host Jenny McCarthy puffed on a Virginia Slim in a hot-pink, rhinestone-studded maxi-coat, perhaps from the Barbie x Anna Karenina collection. The former teen idols from the New Kids on the Block (Ms. McCarthy is married to its bad-boy member, Donnie Wahlberg) milled around her, waiting to take the stage.Other talent who sashayed in and out of the ABC broadcast included Christina Aguilera; Dan and Shay, the music duo; and Colton Underwood, 26, the 6-foot-3 former football player who debuts as “The Bachelor” next Thursday. He said his 2019 resolution was “to be more faithful.”Despite the deluge, Mr. Seacrest remained unflappable, even as he dripped like the Trevi Fountain. Around him, electrical cables snaked through pools of water and heaters hissed clouds of steam. At one moment, with three hours to go before midnight, Mr. Seacrest backed into a heater and his puffer jacket started to smoke.“Step away from that heat,” a burly stagehand said in a thick Boston accent. “Ya burnin’, ya burnin!”A short, soggy walk from Mr. Seacrest’s stage was the riser for “CNN New Year’s Eve With Anderson Cooper and Andy Cohen.”The pally co-hosts, who stood uncovered in the rain for more than four hours, insisted they were having the time of their lives. “I’ve been doing this for 15 years now, and there’s no place I’d rather be,” Mr. Cooper said.Mr. Cohen chimed in: “It’s like a telethon with no disease, it’s fun.”But, isn’t this whole experience just miserable? “Hurricanes are miserable,” Mr. Cooper said, referring to his stand-ups from Ike and Katrina. “I’ve done 13 hours in the rain, so four and a half hours is not so bad.”Like bubbly cruise directors on Noah’s ark, they received Faye Dunaway and Paul Shaffer, who gamely chatted in the downpour. Cher, who is no fool, opted to phone in rather than appear in person.Asked about his resolution, Mr. Cohen replied with a joke that requires his audience to know that he is an avid user of Grindr, a gay dating app.“It’s to stay off G …” he started, but didn’t finish the word. “To use my phone less.”In “The Favourite,” Emma Stone’s character arrives at Queen Anne’s palace covered in mud, having been pushed out of a stagecoach. Arriving at the Metropolitan Opera’s New Year’s Eve Gala around 10 p.m., soaked after two hours in Times Square, felt exactly like that.No trash-bag-poncho-wearing hordes here. Instead, ball-gown-wearing 1-percenters lifted flutes of champagne to toast a pinnacle of high culture — and themselves.About 4,000 opera lovers had attended the premiere of a new production of “Adriana Lecouvreur.” About 350 of them (paying up to $7,500 each) stayed for a seated dinner of lobster salad and duck confit, followed by fireworks. Over a Pavlova dessert, Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, praised Anita Rachvelishvili, one of the evening’s performers, as “the best mezzo-soprano in the world.” The crowd, which included Ann Ziff, Judith-Ann Corrente and Agnieszka Balaban, seemed to agree.“This is a must-see opera, with three extraordinary singers who are all in their prime,” Renée Fleming said.Anna Netrebko, who also performed, said she preferred to stay at home on New Year’s Eve. But she allowed that it had been “a beautiful performance” and that hers was “a big, prima donna part.”And is she herself a big prima donna? Ms. Netrebko, who wore a Gucci cheongsam dress, gave the question serious thought.“If you want me to be so, yes I can,” she said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael M. GrynbaumMoments after President Trump concluded his Oval Office remarks on border security on Tuesday, the NBC anchor Chuck Todd came on air with a blunt assessment.“He made a lot of dubious claims,” Mr. Todd informed millions of viewers after the network’s scheduled program — a new episode of an Ellen DeGeneres-hosted game show — had been pre-empted for a rare prime-time presidential appearance.Shepard Smith, on the Fox network, told viewers that contrary to Mr. Trump’s assertions, “statistics show there is less violent crime by the undocumented immigrant population than by the general population.”And on ABC, the White House correspondent Cecilia Vega took issue with Mr. Trump’s depiction of a southern border in crisis. “Just because you say it’s a crisis,” Ms. Vega said, “doesn’t necessarily make it one.”The decision by major broadcast networks to carry Mr. Trump’s  address live set off a fierce debate over journalistic responsibility in an age of unusual mendacity in politics. Anchors responded by delivering a tough-minded assessment of his nine-minute remarks, reeling off several immediate correctives to some of his misleading claims.The president who appeared on Tuesday night was a far cry from his most famous prime-time incarnation, the gregarious host of “The Apprentice.” Less comfortable in formal settings, Mr. Trump struggled at times reading from his teleprompter, adopting a mostly flat affect.Granting a president airtime to address the nation is normally an easy decision for network executives. But Mr. Trump’s public statements have been marked by untruths and misleading claims, and liberals wondered why news outlets would defer to a president who on Monday labeled journalists “the Enemy of the People” and “crazed lunatics.”Eventually, ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox agreed to the White House’s request, forgoing their 9 p.m. entertainment shows — and millions of dollars in associated ad revenue — for the appearance. The networks also broadcast a response from the Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Chuck Schumer, the senator from New York.The decision was controversial and predictable at the same time.Executives at the major networks, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private discussions, cited the government shutdown — and the millions of Americans affected by it — as the primary reason for airing the president’s remarks. This was also Mr. Trump’s first formal request that the networks carry a prime-time address, a rarely used arrow in the presidential quiver.“When the president of the United States asks for time to make an address to the American public, I don’t think you can say no,” Ted Koppel, the longtime ABC anchorman, said in an interview. Any concern about misleading claims, he added, “is a judgment you can only make after you hear what he has to say.”Others argued that traditional ways of covering the president should not apply to the norm-breaking Mr. Trump. Former aides to President Barack Obama pointed out that his request for airtime in 2014 to discuss immigration reform was turned down by the networks, which called the subject overly political. One aide, Dan Pfeiffer, wrote on Twitter after Mr. Trump’s remarks on Tuesday night that “the Networks got played.”Still, producers at several networks cited the uncertainty surrounding the shutdown, and an impending suspension of federal paychecks, as inherently newsworthy.Executives were juggling a slew of concerns, some tied to public responsibility and others crassly commercial. Tuesday is a relatively slow night for prime time, so airing the president’s address would not pre-empt a ratings magnet like a National Football League game. Executives in New York are mindful of their national affiliates, many of which cater to red-state audiences that might be antagonized to discover their local station is declining to show Mr. Trump’s remarks.Even as the news landscape has fractured, the four major networks still have the biggest audience in mass media. Some journalists had questioned if a different approach was necessary.“There are so many sources of news now, but the networks’ policies haven’t changed very much,” Andrew Heyward, a former president of CBS News, said before the speech. “One very attractive option would be to promote the fact that it’s live with a crawl, and then if it turns out to be newsworthy, you can do a special report. You then pull selected sound from it and give it context, as opposed to having to get trapped in something and having to react to it.”For those who sought counterprogramming on Tuesday, one former Trump associate offered an alternative.“If you’re looking for anything even remotely worth watching tonight at 9pm EST, I will be folding laundry in my underwear for 8 minutes on Instagram live,” Stormy Daniels, the adult film actress who has claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, wrote on Twitter. She followed through on her promise in a streaming video featuring the sounds of Pink Floyd’s “Another Brick in the Wall.”As for Mr. Trump, his preparations for prime time went beyond the usual speechwriting.At a White House lunch with television anchors on Tuesday, the president was in a cheery, chatty mood. But according to two people in the room, he frowned when a hefty slice of chocolate cake arrived for dessert.“That’s going to look good on me tonight,” Mr. Trump joked, declining to partake.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bruce WeberDan Jenkins, a sportswriter whose rollicking irreverence enlivened Sports Illustrated’s pages for nearly 25 years and animated several novels, including “Semi-Tough,” a sendup of the steroidal appetites, attitudes and hype in pro football that became a classic of sports lit, died on Thursday in Fort Worth. He was 90.He had experienced heart and renal failure and had recently broken his hip, said his daughter, Sally Jenkins, a sports columnist for The Washington Post.Mr. Jenkins was among a cadre of Sports Illustrated writers — including Roy Blount Jr., Mark Kram and Frank Deford — recruited by André Laguerre, the managing editor who oversaw the magazine’s emergence as a leader in literate, and occasionally literary, sports journalism as well as a powerhouse in the Time Inc. stable. Mr. Jenkins joined the magazine in 1962.A Texan with a good old boy’s pride in country common sense over urban sophistication, Mr. Jenkins brought a Southern wiseacre erudition to the pages of a magazine not exactly used to the arch or earthy or impolitic remark. Opinionated, more than occasionally snarky, he wrote with an open appreciation of athletes and coaches, bars, pretty women and chicken fried steak, replete with clever put-downs and outlandish metaphors.His main beats were golf and college football, sports he grew up with in Fort Worth.“The devoted golfer is an anguished soul who has learned a lot about putting just the way an avalanche victim has learned a lot about snow,” Mr. Jenkins wrote in an article for the magazine that earned him a full-time job there. “He knows he has used straight shafts, curved shafts, shiny shafts, dull shafts, glass shafts, oak shafts and Great Uncle Clyde’s World War I saber, which he found in the attic. Attached to these shafts have been putter heads made of large lumps of lead (‘weight makes the ball roll true,’ salesmen explain) and slivers of aluminum (‘lightness makes the ball roll true,’ salesmen explain) as well as every other substance harder than a marshmallow. He knows he has tried 41 different stances, inspired by everyone from the club pro to Fred Astaire in ‘Flying Down to Rio’ and as many different strokes. Still, he knows he is hopelessly trapped. He can’t putt, and he never will, and the only thing left for him to do is bury his head in the dirt and live the rest of his life like a radish.”Mr. Jenkins was fond of toying with racial, ethnic, national and social stereotypes in a distinctly non-P.C. manner, and was especially defiant in doing so outside the stricture of magazine journalism, particularly in “Semi-Tough” his first and best-known novel, published in 1972.The book is narrated by Billy Clyde Puckett, a star running back for the New York Giants and a Fort Worth native.Set in the week leading up to an all-New York Super Bowl in which the Giants are to face the Jets, the novel is a pouring out of Billy Clyde’s observations and attitudes — brash, cynical, boastful, charming, shrewd, rip-snortingly vulgar and often hilarious — as he speaks into a tape recorder for the purpose of publishing a book.What results is a hyperbolic, first-person report on a world whose lexicon involves all manner of stereotype and slur and whose concerns are more or less confined to food, drink, drugs, money, sex, digestive excretions and football. Often cited as among the funniest sports books ever written, it came in at No. 7 on Sports Illustrated’s 2002 list of the top 100 sports books of all time.“I loved it,” David Halberstam wrote in The New York Times Book Review. “I read it aloud to my wife, who does not like football one bit, and she loved it. It is outrageous. It mocks contemporary American mores. It mocks Madison Avenue; it mocks racial attitudes; it mocks writers like me; and it even mocks sportswriters for Sports Illustrated like Dan Jenkins.”“Semi-Tough” was adapted for a 1978 movie that starred Burt Reynolds as Billy Clyde Puckett.Dan Thomas Jenkins was born in Fort Worth on Dec. 2, 1928, although many sources list the year as 1929. His father, E. T. Jenkins Jr., known as Bud, was a salesman, a gambler and evidently a charmer who left the family when Dan was a toddler, though he showed up now and then to take his son to sporting events.In a 2014 book, “His Ownself: A Semi-Memoir,” Mr. Jenkins expressed a fondness for his father, as well as for his mother, Catherine (O’Hern) Jenkins, whom he described with arch affection as a self-indulgent character who sold antiques and remodeled houses “and ultimately invented the migraine headache.”From the age of 2, Mr. Jenkins grew up — contentedly, he wrote, in spite of the Depression — in the home of his father’s parents. He became the first member of the family to go to college, — at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, where he played on the golf team. One of his early heroes, the golfer Ben Hogan, also lived in Fort Worth, and Hogan became something of a mentor, admired by Mr. Jenkins for his work ethic, perseverance (Hogan returned to championship golf after nearly being killed in a car accident in 1949) and devotion to excellence.Mr. Jenkins got his first job in journalism in the mid-1950s, at The Fort Worth Press, hired by Blackie Sherrod, a writer and editor who would himself become celebrated in Texas as a Southern Damon Runyon. Mr. Jenkins succeeded Sherrod, whom he cited as an influence, as sports editor before landing at Sports Illustrated.Mr. Jenkins’s first two marriages ended in divorce. In 1959, he married June Burrage, whom he had known while growing up in Fort Worth. She survives him. In addition to his daughter, his survivors include his sons Marty and Dan Jr., a granddaughter and a great-granddaughter.Mr. Jenkins plumbed the homey if earthy wisdom of Fort Worth in a number of books after “Semi-Tough,” including the novels “Dead Solid Perfect” (1974), about a professional golfer in the swaggering Billy Clyde mold, and “Baja Oklahoma” (1981), about a feisty waitress and single mother with aspirations to be a country singer; both became television movies.Another novel, “You Gotta Play Hurt” (1991), a sendup of the sportswriter’s life, tells of a cantankerous Fort Worthian and the stuffy, big time magazine he works for. Mr. Jenkins wrote it after leaving Sports Illustrated in the 1980s in a dispute with the managing editor at the time, Gilbert Rogin.He went on to write for Playboy and was a senior writer for Golf Digest, where in 2014 he created a squall with a parody of an interview with Tiger Woods in which he portrayed Mr. Woods as being arrogant and spoiled. In a response on The Players Tribune website, Mr. Woods called the article “a grudge-fueled piece of character assassination.”“Journalistically and ethically,” he wrote, “can you sink any lower?”Mr. Jenkins’s other books include “Limo,” a 1976 novel written with Bud Shrake, an old pal from Fort Worth who also wrote for Sports Illustrated; it satirizes network television by depicting the creation of a show that prefigures today’s reality programming.None of Mr. Jenkins’s subsequent novels had the impact of his first. This was partly because the bawdy audacity that characterized “Semi-Tough” seemed less audacious in later books, and partly because the characters espousing the attitudes and employing the language favored by Billy Clyde and friends struck many readers as much less appealing as public attitudes changed.Mr. Jenkins openly lamented this societal swivel. His characters spoke bitterly of it in his later novels, and his memoir, though full of vintage Jenkins phrase-turning and storytelling about the good old days of sports and sportswriting, is spiked with a sour loathing of what he called political correctness; the book, echoing the opening of “Semi-Tough,” contains some ill-humored and offensive remarks about Asians.As the Times book critic Dwight Garner noted in his review of the memoir, “His anti-P.C. campaign is where his geezer routine crosses over into something worse.”“Now this writer is going to be partly remembered for this stuff,” he added, “which is a shame.”It’s a shame, Mr. Garner wrote, because of how generous Mr. Jenkins was.“I woke up with a smile on my face every morning during the two or three days I spent reading ‘His Ownself,’ ” he wrote. The book, he said, is “one of those books that reminds you that good stories happen only to people who can tell them.”Richard Sandomir contributed reporting.AdvertisementKeeping ScorePhilip Rivers has not missed a game since taking over as the Chargers’ quarterback in 2006.CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanIn 2006, the San Diego Chargers had a conundrum. Their starting quarterback from the previous season was a 27-year-old free agent who was coming back from a severe shoulder injury. While they had gone 21-11 over the previous two seasons, they had not won a playoff game since 1994, and they had a first-round pick from the 2004 draft on the bench, ready to step in as a starter.The player they chose to let go, Drew Brees, went on to become the most productive passer in N.F.L. history. Yet 12 seasons later it’s fairly easy, after considering the salary and risk involved in the situation, to make the argument that the Chargers made the right call in letting him leave.That’s the strange reality of Philip Rivers, who replaced Brees, established himself as a franchise quarterback, and yet has been largely overlooked ever since in the discussions of the game’s best quarterbacks despite a regular-season résumé that stands out even amid today’s bloated passing numbers. And whether it is fair to him or not, his lack of a Super Bowl victory is no small factor in that disregard.So as he heads into the playoffs for the sixth time — his Chargers (now in Los Angeles) will play at the Baltimore Ravens in the wild-card round on Sunday — Rivers is once again having his worth debated. Rivers, who has not missed a start since being named the Chargers’ starter, has had a career that may not quite match up to Brees’s, but comes much closer than most would think, especially once you factor in the benefit of Brees having played half of his games in the passer-friendly Superdome in New Orleans. And while he may not have as high of a profile as two other big-name quarterbacks taken in the 2004 draft — Eli Manning and Ben Roethlisberger — the case can be made that he was better than either of his famous peers in the regular season.That 2004 draft class can claim a distinction that even the 1983 group — one that includes Dan Marino, John Elway and Jim Kelly — can’t: It had three quarterbacks reach 50,000 career passing yards. It’s a total achieved by just nine quarterbacks, and one-third of them were selected within 11 picks of one another (Manning first, Rivers fourth, Roethlisberger 11th). In that group of 2004 quarterbacks, Rivers leads in touchdowns (374), touchdown percentage (5.3 percent), adjusted yards per passing attempt (7.7) and passer rating (95.6). He has thrown the fewest interceptions (178) and has the lowest interception percentage (2.5 percent).But Brees, Manning and Roethlisberger have something Rivers does not: a championship ring. Brees, whose shoulder healed just fine in New Orleans, won Super Bowl XLIV with the Saints while Manning and Roethlisberger have each won a pair of championships. Despite the ever-present talk that a ring would complete his N.F.L. résumé, Rivers himself has tried to play down the validation that would come with finally winning a championship.“Not that you ever settle,” Rivers told ESPN of pursuing a Super Bowl win. “By no means am I saying I’m settling. It’s not that. It’s just that it’s not going to define happiness for me at the end of the day.” Ignoring the modern obsession with evaluating players’ legacies almost entirely by championships, Rivers already has a career worthy of celebrating.It has had ups and downs. He has led the league in touchdowns and he has led the league in interceptions (twice). He has won 11 or more games in four seasons — including this one — and his play once dropped off so severely that when he returned to normal in 2013, he was awarded the N.F.L.’s Comeback Player of the Year Award. And his personality, on and off the field, has had its ups and downs as well. At one point he was a regular subject of internet mockery, with satirical sites like KissingSuzyKolber poking fun at his throwing style and his off-field demeanor. But he has endeared himself through pure longevity and a commitment to chucking the ball downfield, to the point that he was able to generate one of the feel-good internet moments of the 2018 season when cameras caught his earnest reaction to a change in fortune during the Chargers’ win over Pittsburgh in Week 13.There is no perfect  statistic to evaluate the total impact of an N.F.L. career, but ProFooballReference’s attempt at creating one, Approximate Value, rates Rivers at 177, Roethlisberger at 171 and Manning at 150, ranking them eighth, ninth and 16th among quarterbacks in N.F.L. regular-season history. In all likelihood, Roethlisberger’s superior won-lost record, and his Super Bowl rings, will make him the easiest Hall of Fame vote of the three. But the debates could rage endlessly between Rivers (regular-season success) and Manning (postseason success), with either, or both, being enshrined in Canton based on the views of the group of writers responsible for election once they become eligible. Before any of that comes to pass, Rivers has unfinished business. At 37, he remains a productive passer, and the team currently around him is one of the most talented he has ever played with. The Chargers have a brutally difficult task this weekend in trying to slow Lamar Jackson and the Ravens — they lost to Baltimore by 22-10 two weeks ago — but even if this is not their year, their roster construction should allow them to compete again in the 2019 season.And should Rivers never win a Super Bowl, he would still have achieved a level of production and durability that should keep him in the discussion of the game’s best quarterbacks long after he retires. He would simply fall into the category of Fran Tarkenton, Dan Fouts, Marino and Kelly as one the best quarterbacks to have never won a Super Bowl. And there is far worse company a player could keep. Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyWhen Leslie Smith, a high school senior from Miami, made his official visit to the University of Pittsburgh last month, he got an idea before a photo shoot in which he was to pose wearing the Panthers’ football uniform.He asked his mother, Lucretia Chapple, who was accompanying him on his visit, to put on the jersey.His request was too mild for her.“She decided, ‘I’m going to put on the whole uniform,’” Smith said.The result is a pair of pictures of Smith, who will suit up for Pitt more regularly next season as a freshman linebacker, and Chapple, who in years past played basketball and ran track. Both are clad in the school’s blue and gold colors, head to almost-toe (they did not appear to have cleats that fit Chapple). Long hair flows from the back of her helmet.“She looks pretty good in that uniform,” said Smith’s future coach, Pat Narduzzi. “She looks like a player.”Parents of college-age students have long proudly advertised where their students attend school on sweatshirts, bumper stickers, coffee mugs, etc.But football parents — a special species of sports parent — have a new twist on that this year. As national signing day dawns Wednesday, the trend du jour is parents dressing up in uniforms alongside their talented sons.The resulting shots are, of course, posted to Twitter and Instagram, from which they ricochet across the web.“I had buddies coming up to me being like, ‘You know you’re on Barstool Sports?’” said Steve Snyder, who posed alongside his son, Sam, a tight end, during Sam’s official visit to Missouri.There may be no bigger date on the calendar for college football teams than signing day, since personnel overwhelmingly dictates a team’s ultimate success or failure. For the past two years, players have also been able to sign during a brief window in December, as Smith did, but signing day is still when ultimate judgment about coaches’ recruiting is rendered.“For college football, recruiting is the lifeblood,” said Luke Stampini, a recruiting analyst at 247Sports. “If you’re not recruiting well, you’re probably not going to be around for long.”The uniform photo-op arguably reflects broader currents in child rearing. It could be cast as helicopter-parenting — or perhaps the next generation of helicopter-parenting, in which the parent ropes down from the chopper right after his child.“This is the era of ‘we’ parenting, i.e., ‘We have a midterm. We’ve got a game tomorrow. We’re being recruited by top-tier schools,’” Julie Lythcott-Haims, a former Stanford administrator and the author of “How to Raise an Adult,” said in an email.“If the child is wearing a jersey signaling their recruitment status, the we-speaking parent wants that cool jersey, too,” she said, adding, “But where does this intertwined-ness stop?”What the novelty undeniably reveals is a crucial secret to recruiting nowadays. For all the talk that prognosticators may offer about how well a certain linebacker meshes with a certain coordinator’s defensive philosophy or how successful a college program is at developing players for the N.F.L., much of recruiting comes down to the more basic element of feel. Even for top football players, college football is also college, and that means getting the family to sign on, too.“The recruiting process is not just about the player. They can’t recruit the player. They’ve got to recruit the family,” said Jamal Hill, who posed alongside his older brother, Jeffrey, who got to wear Oregon’s neon green uniform as opposed to Jamal’s black one.“It’s a long-term decision,” Hill added. “You’ve got to trust them. Once you start recruiting the whole family, that makes it go more smoothly.”During their campus visits, recruits typically tour not only football facilities but academic ones. Coaches are as likely to shoot the breeze as to draw Xs and Os on a whiteboard, hoping to make recruits — and their families — feel like their college is a suitable home-away-from-home.Steve Ognenovic — whose son Nikolas, a tight end, posed alongside his father at Pitt and Kentucky before signing with the latter — recalled a long visit with Auburn Coach Gus Malzahn. “We spent 20 minutes talking about football,” Ognenovic said. “The rest was about the new addition on his deck, the truck he bought. He’s a regular guy.”The trend can also be a way for coaches to signal to recruits, present and future, what kind of program they are running. For instance, Florida’s second-year head coach, Dan Mullen, appears intent on reintroducing to Gainesville the kind of whimsy one expects from a team whose fans do a gator-chop on game days.In contrast, a Tennessee assistant coach recently spoke out against the practice, tweeting that one of the things he prays for was “that I NEVER have to outfit someone’s dad in full gear for a photo shoot.” It is not shocking that the assistant first worked with Tennessee’s head coach, Jeremy Pruitt, when both were on the staff of Alabama’s supremely buttoned-up Nick Saban, whose recruits are probably less likely to pose alongside mom or dad.So why do some kids and parents want these photographs, which may be compelling but are also a little bit absurd? And why do they make heavy rotation on social media and in the sports blogosphere?The photos are a reminder of the human dimension in college football’s annual meat market. For all the hoopla over which program has signed the best class (spoiler: yet again, it will probably be Alabama) and which team whiffed on a prized in-state offensive lineman, often overlooked is how big a day this is for the prospects themselves, who, like so many other adolescents who are less gifted on the gridiron, are finally completing the large and much-celebrated process of deciding where to go to college.Steve Snyder said that, when a Missouri coach asked if he wanted to put a jersey on, “I thought to myself, how many opportunities am I ever going to get to have an experience like this with my son?”His son ended up signing with Baylor, and, Snyder said, friends and family had already loaded up on Bears gear. “You’re very proud parents,” he said. “Lot of hard work.”Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College FootballBy Marc TracyMillennials were the first generation to make multitasking a religion. Hovered over by helicopter parents, they — we — were encouraged to see no ceiling to our potential and no limits to our options as we were ferried among school, basketball practice, piano lessons, test-prep tutoring and group outings to the movies.“It’s not the stick that drives them on, it’s the carrot,” David Brooks wrote of the oldest millennials, who were college students in 2001. “Opportunity lures them.”But that, it turns out, was child’s play. Kyler Murray, born in 1997 — making him either an extremely young millennial or a member of the emerging Generation Z — was already set to go from Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback of Oklahoma, a major-conference champion, to budding star outfielder for the Oakland Athletics.Murray added a further twist Monday, though, when he announced — how? on Twitter, of course! — that contrary to expectations he would enter the N.F.L. draft, despite having received a $4.66 million signing bonus with the A’s last year. He had been selected with the ninth overall pick in the Major League Baseball draft on the understanding that this past season would be his last on the gridiron.“I’ve always felt like I could play in the N.F.L.,” Murray said last month. “I’m a confident guy.”He added of football: “I’ve played this game my whole life and I’ve always felt like I could do it.”There are many ways Murray’s pre-professional saga could conclude, and it is not at all certain that he will ever suit up for an N.F.L. team. The league combine is next month; whether Murray shows up will tell us more about his true intentions. (It will also tell us more about his true height, which Oklahoma lists at an already-short-for-an-N.F.L. quarterback 5 feet 10 inches.)Murray and his representatives met with the A’s and a league representative on Sunday, according to a source with knowledge of the talks, where it was established that the A’s could offer him a larger, major-league contract. Murray entered the draft in order to learn more what N.F.L. front offices think of him, the source said.Late last year, Murray and his baseball agent, Scott Boras, insisted that the plan was for Murray to play one season as Oklahoma’s starter and then report to spring training for the Athletics. Such a deal was apparently part of the negotiating process that led to Murray’s baseball contract, and was outlined in a news conference last spring with A’s executives.Still, that Murray would even entertain the possibility of playing both big league baseball and quarterback on Sundays — or would be so self-assured of his talents as to make leveraging one against the other a plausible ploy — is something new in American sports.When Bo Jackson and Deion Sanders were two-sport stars two decades ago, they were a running back and a cornerback. Those are difference-making positions, but quarterback they are not.And in 1994, after Charlie Ward won the Heisman playing quarterback at Florida State, he said he would turn to basketball unless he was picked in the N.F.L. draft’s first round. When he was not, he embarked on a decade-long career in the N.B.A., mostly with the Knicks.The differences between the two pastimes must have seemed blurrier then. Free agency was only dawning in the N.F.L. Many revelations concerning the toll of repeated hits to the head were still years into the future.Nowadays, we know how dangerous football can be. But we also know that young baseball players face many years of some combination of playing in the minor leagues and making lowish salaries under team control before hitting an ostensibly open market into which franchises are seemingly pouring less money every year. All this while franchise quarterbacks sign deals worth $30 million a year after finishing rookie contracts that are not exactly ungenerous.Football versus baseball, in other words, is not the obvious, clear-cut decision that some might have once thought it was.It is conceivable that Murray will not have to choose. He is frequently projected as a first-round N.F.L. draft pick, and already was one in baseball. First-round picks are among the most valuable assets in both leagues, and no team in either would knowingly waste one by using it on someone with no intention of trying to live up to it.Either way, Murray has already transcended the team-first ethos of both sports, exploiting his moment of utmost possibility for all it is worth. This might be the ultimate millennial move: always, always play your cards optimally, and you will maximize your accomplishments.Then again, an older person — even an older millennial — might point out that money, fame and glamour are worth only so much. In the long run, we are all running on a treadmill no matter how fast our 40-yard dash is.This much we know for sure: should he not withdraw his entry into the N.F.L. draft, he will irrevocably give up his final season of eligibility in college football.That is a wholly understandable decision. In college, the pay is lousy, and there is a definite sense that real life is still a thing in the future. But as many a proud alum knows, college can be the best, and real life can be overrated.Additional reporting by Tyler Kepner.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe New England Patriots are 19-3 in playoff games in this century in Foxborough, Mass. — or is it Foxboro? — their out-of-the-way, small-town home since 1971.By Bill PenningtonFOXBOROUGH, Mass. — In the N.F.L. community, one word might be feared more than any other: Foxborough.It is where the rosy Super Bowl dreams of visiting teams die a frosty death each January. It is where the New England Patriots, before a raucous southeastern Massachusetts home crowd, rarely lose a playoff game (this century’s postseason record there is 19-3). It is where N.F.L. road teams are not only defeated, but rejected under peculiar circumstances. See: Deflategate, Tom Brady and the tuck rule.How did out-of-the way, small-town Foxborough, of all places, come to be synonymous with heartache in N.F.L. cities from coast to coast while blossoming into a shrine to comprehensive Patriots glory?The Patriots, after all, came to Foxborough in 1971 only because no one else wanted them. It helped that the stadium land, 30 miles south of Boston, was free.[N.F.L. Playoff Coverage: Patriots Dominate Chargers to Reach A.F.C. Championship Game] Foxborough (population: 17,000) remains firmly rooted in its pre-Patriots past, with dairy cows visible from the top of Gillette Stadium. More than that, Foxborough is the oddest place to bear witness to recurring N.F.L. history, simply because no one here can agree on how to spell the town’s name.Since 1778, by decree, in all authorized documents and on all town buildings, it has been spelled Foxborough. But almost immediately after that became official, many institutions in the town — banks, businesses, even the local newspaper — decided it was easier to go by Foxboro. In a quintessential example of New England persistence, the argument has endured for centuries: There are now signs with both spellings throughout the village.However the name is spelled, Foxborough residents know their little municipality is renowned far and wide.“I’ve done training across the country,” Tom Buckley, the town’s deputy fire chief, said. “When I’m asked where I live, I never mention the Patriots. I just say Foxborough. And instantly, everyone starts talking to me about the Patriots and how they always win there.“Does that happen with any other N.F.L. team? I mean, I don’t know where the Miami Dolphins play, even though I know it’s not Miami.” The Patriots, unbeaten in their last eight home playoff games, will put that streak on the line Sunday afternoon against the Los Angeles Chargers in an A.F.C. divisional playoff game. The Patriots, who have won five Super Bowls since the 2001 season, have had, for them, an uneven season, losing five of eight away games. But they were the only N.F.L. team to be 8-0 at home, a substantial source of pride in Foxborough.“In the town, we feel like we bring a different type of energy at those home games,” David Tynan, a longtime Foxborough resident, said on Wednesday outside the town’s primary grocery store. “Game days are like holidays. By kickoff, the streets are quiet — you’re either at the stadium or inside watching the game.”Because there are few hills, trees or other buildings near Gillette Stadium, the landscape is windswept in January and bracing, with temperatures typically in the 20s. The Patriots intentionally built their practice facility adjacent to the stadium, and they almost always practice outside,  acclimating to the elements in a way that their playoff opponents — from mostly warmer regions — cannot. The atmosphere in Gillette Stadium is also especially hostile to visiting teams, as Patriots home crowds are considered among the most vociferous in the N.F.L.Rich Noonan, a lieutenant in the Police Department and a fifth-generation native of Foxborough, recalled the town’s blue-collar origins and said area fans “were protecting their home turf.”Noonan laughed, and added: “But so much has changed. When I was a kid, they couldn’t give away tickets. They opened the stadium gates at halftime and let anyone in.”Indeed, the Patriots’ earliest days in Foxborough were as undistinguished as their first 11 years as the vagabond Boston Patriots of the American Football League. Beginning in 1960, those unheralded Patriots practiced on grassless high school fields and played games at Boston University, Harvard University, Boston College and Fenway Park. With the A.F.L.-N.F.L. merger in 1970, the Patriots needed a sizable stadium as a permanent home, and after talks with Boston city leaders repeatedly broke down, Billy Sullivan, the team’s owner, welcomed an offer from Bay State Raceway, which donated land next to its facility for a 60,000-seat stadium.The Patriots won their first game at the stadium in 1971, although thousands of ticket holders never saw a single play because they were stuck for the entirety of the game in gridlock traffic that crammed Route 1, the only access road to the stadium.Shortly after the first game, the local health board closed Schaefer Stadium because of malfunctioning toilets. Various solutions were tried, including an exercise that enlisted hundreds of volunteers to flush all of the stadium toilets simultaneously — a tactic referred to as Super Flush in the local news media. Fans came up with another name for the site: the Toilet Bowl.“It was a nightmare at times,” Jack Authelet, the Foxborough town historian, said. “The stadium would be closed, it would get a reprieve for one game, and then there would be another closing. Another last-minute reprieve would allow a game to be played, then it would close again. This went on week after week.” When the games did go on, the crowds drank heavily, so much so that Foxborough prohibited the stadium from hosting “Monday Night Football” because of the  tumult that ensued after dark. And when the Patriots were not playing, the stadium hosted dozens of rock concerts, where pervasive drug and alcohol use caused nearby hospitals to fill with patients.Foxborough, with a pastoral common at its center, was wondering what it had gotten itself into. But over time, and with some prudent strategizing, the traffic problems diminished. Restrictions on events were imposed to make them safer and calmer. The Sullivan family lost control of the team, and the stadium was renamed Foxboro Stadium — not Foxborough — and by 1994, the businessman Robert K. Kraft had bought the team. Kraft knew he needed a modern stadium, and in 1998 seriously flirted with taking the Patriots to Hartford. Eventually, a deal was struck to build what is now Gillette Stadium, next to the site of the old stadium. The Patriots won their first Super Bowl in an upset months before Gillette Stadium opened in 2002. The last game at Foxboro Stadium was a controversial, come-from-behind, overtime playoff victory known as the Tuck Rule Game, in which an apparent New England fumble became an incomplete pass and saved the day for the Patriots. The home Foxborough magic was born.“All of a sudden, we had the Super Bowl champions and a real professional stadium,” said Mike Kelleher, a lifelong Foxborough resident and the town’s incoming fire chief. “That’s when everything changed around here. Before a 1 o’clock game, we would see every parking lot totally full with tailgaters by 10 a.m.”The vibe was transformed. The home victories became a badge of honor for the locals.“Now you hear it all the time: This is Foxborough; the Patriots don’t lose here,” said Waylon Krueger, who moved from Buffalo three years ago. “It’s a given. Look, I’m a Bills fan. I wish we had that.”Hosting the Patriots has also been enormously helpful for the town’s municipal budget, even though the stadium site is just a sliver of Foxborough along commercially dense Route 1, where Kraft’s holding company constructed a mall next to the stadium.Foxborough receives a portion of each ticket sold to events at Gillette Stadium, which amounts to $2.5 million to $3 million annually, according to the town manager, William Keegan. That total is at least doubled by other taxes generated by the Patriots’ presence in town. In addition, the Patriots make six-figure charitable donations annually to Foxborough.In the last 10 to 15 years, the town’s demographic makeup has been altered. Foxborough has had an influx of home buyers with corporate jobs who commute to Boston and Providence, R.I., which is a little more than 20 miles to the south. Larger homes have sprouted on tree-lined streets, some of them aimed at housing millionaire football players employed nearby.More than half the Patriots’ roster lives in Foxborough, and many other players live in surrounding towns.“I’m impressed with the intensity of the fan support in Foxborough; it’s almost like a college football town,” said Patriots center David Andrews, who lives in town. “And people make us feel welcome. They invite us to their homes for the holidays.”Because it is inescapable, Andrews has noticed the town’s dual spelling. But he would not wade into the 241-year-old squabble over it. The dispute may not rise to the level of  bar fights, but there are strong opinions.“You spell it long or you spell it wrong,” said Buckley, whose firefighter’s uniform has a Foxborough patch.Authelet, the town historian, supports the longer spelling as well. But the license plate on his car reads: FOXBRO.Massachusetts allows personalized plates to have no more than six letters, so he did the best he could.A few years ago, Authelet was waiting in his car at a stoplight in Philadelphia when another car pulled alongside. The driver honked his horn and held up a sign.“The guy had written on a piece of paper: Cheaters,” Authelet said, well aware of the rules controversies christened Spygate and Deflategate that have dogged Coach Bill Belichick’s team through the years.“That kind of reaction happens; it’s a fact,” Authelet said with a smile. “But most people tell me that I live in a sports lover’s paradise where the home team almost always wins.“A lot of towns would like to trade places.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesThe U.S.-Mexico border is a daily headline. A political football. And also home to millions of people.We’ve launched a limited-run weekly newsletter about life on the border, far from the tug-of-war of Washington politics.Sign up here.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorAs is tradition, President Trump hosted the champions of college football, the Clemson Tigers, for a celebration of their athletic achievement at the White House on Monday.The food he offered them was far less traditional.Piles of burgers and fish sandwiches from McDonald’s, Wendy’s and Burger King, still in their boxes and wrappers, were served on trays in the candlelit dining room. Tubs of dipping sauces were stacked in silver gravy boats. On another table, heat lamps kept French fries and Domino’s pizzas warm. Salads were available, too.It was an opulent setting for fast-food fare. Visiting players are typically offered a meal from the White House kitchen, but Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Trump’s press secretary, said the government shutdown necessitated a new menu.“Because the Democrats refuse to negotiate on border security, much of the residence staff at the White House is furloughed — so the president is personally paying for the event to be catered with some of everyone’s favorite fast foods,” she said.The substitution didn’t seem to bother Mr. Trump, and perhaps even delighted him.“I like it all,” he told reporters before the players arrived. “It’s all good stuff. Great American food.”Mr. Trump has long professed a love for fast food. He values its efficiency and consistency, and as a self-professed “germaphobe,” has said uniform health standards make him more confident in its cleanliness. He used to eat it several times per week.He’s far from alone in loving fast food. About one-third of American adults eat fast food on any given day, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Still, the sight of the fast-food cartons inside the stately White House dining room struck some observers on social media as incongruous — or lacking in hospitality for a celebration. (No players looked particularly dissatisfied as cameras rolled.)It also promoted cuisine that nutritionists warn is high in calories, fat and sodium, and that increases the risk of cardiovascular and other diseases.Such events, ostensibly a tribute to championship teams, are unavoidably political. Mr. Trump abruptly disinvited the N.F.L. champion Philadelphia Eagles last year after most of the players and coaches said they would boycott the visit. The Golden State Warriors declined to visit after winning the N.B.A. championship last year.With reporters gathered before the players arrived, on a day he stayed inside the White House, Mr. Trump was eager to drive the discussion back to the weekslong government shutdown. After showing off the food spread, he pivoted to making his case for Republican unity and the need for the border wall.“It should have happened 30 years ago, 20 years ago, 10 years ago, and it’s going to happen now, it’s going to happen now,” he said.Without missing a beat, he continued: “Thank you very much, everybody. Enjoy your food.”Katie Rogers contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonTwo Fridays ago, Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, was in Los Angeles, one of his homes away from home.He started the day at Nate and Al’s, the Beverly Hills delicatessen where he occasionally dines with friends, including Larry King and Steve Tisch, the co-owner of the Giants. Later that day, he was supposed to play golf with Al Michaels, the longtime host of “Sunday Night Football.”Kraft never made it to the first tee at the Bel-Air Country Club. During the morning he received word that the police 2,600 miles away in Florida were charging him with two counts of soliciting a prostitute at a massage parlor in Jupiter. Since then, authorities have revealed that Kraft is one of hundreds of men facing solicitation charges as part of a case that also encompasses suspected human trafficking in South Florida.[Read more: Behind Illicit Massage Parlors Lie a Vast Crime Network and Modern Indentured Servitude]Suddenly, Kraft’s off-season, and perhaps his status as one of the most influential N.F.L. owners, had been turned upside down.It is telling that he received the news while in Los Angeles, the capital of the entertainment industry. In the quarter-century since he bought the Patriots, Kraft has been at the center of countless business decisions affecting the league, from labor agreements to franchise sales to the commissioner’s compensation. But Kraft has also left his mark by forming friendships with the leaders of the media companies that pay billions of dollars to televise N.F.L. games.Those contracts account for about half of the N.F.L.’s estimated $14 billion annual revenue. As the chairman of the league’s media committee, Kraft has become the N.F.L.’s seemingly indispensable owner, as anyone who holds that position usually is, and he has been expert at getting networks like CBS and Fox to pay previously unimaginable rights fees, and making them feel as if they were lucky to do so.“He is a clever negotiator,” said David Hill, the former chairman of Fox Sports. “He could look at what the broadcaster needed and gauge what they felt they could pay but still leave something on the table so you don’t feel like you were gouged.”Now Kraft may have compromised his stature within that most exclusive of American business clubs. In addition to any league punishment, he faces up to one year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service — though since this would be a first-time offense, prosecutors said, he is unlikely to spend any time behind bars if convicted.On Feb. 25, Kraft pleaded not guilty to the misdemeanor charges. A date in court, where he is likely to be represented by his lawyer, is scheduled for March 27.Kraft’s behavior has come under scrutiny before. He has admitted to meddling in football decisions and alienating his coaches in his early years of owning the Patriots. In 2008, he apologized after his team was fined $250,000 and lost a first-round draft pick because of allegations in 2007 that the Patriots videotaped their opponent’s offensive or defensive signals. Coach Bill Belichick was fined $500,000. In 2013, Kraft claimed he was “duped” by Aaron Hernandez, the Patriots tight end who was convicted of murder and later killed himself in prison.In ownership circles, Kraft is known to act as a kind of shadow commissioner, forming close relationships with sponsors, vendors, media companies and even the N.F.L. Players Association, and pursuing back-channel communications that can sometimes circumvent his fellow owners and league officials.His influence, though, has limits. Many owners tolerate Kraft’s freelancing because he gets results and tries to keep other owners in the loop. But their tolerance runs thin when his team is accused of wrongdoing, as happened in the Spygate scandal and in 2015, when the Patriots were accused of deflating footballs before the A.F.C. championship game. In those cases, owners were not unhappy when the commissioner penalized the team.Numerous former and current league executives and Kraft’s ownership brethren declined to comment on the record for this article, as did Kraft. Even privately, many of them were reluctant to criticize him for the solicitation charges, which they consider a personal matter.It is possible, though, that the arrest could diminish Kraft’s standing among the owners just as his skill sets and relationships are needed.The league’s television contracts are up for renewal in two years, and the N.F.L. would like new players like Amazon to jump into the fray. Negotiations are likely to be complicated as the league and networks figure out how to value rights for streaming and other new technology. Kraft lost a major ally in Leslie Moonves, his longtime friend, who was forced to step down as chief executive of CBS in September after more than a dozen women accused him of sexual misconduct.If Kraft is concerned about his own allegations, he is not showing it. While he has not spoken publicly about the charges, which the police said stem from video recordings of him, Kraft has been seen in public, including at a pre-Oscars brunch on Feb. 23 where he was photographed with Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive.When Kraft returned to Boston the next day, he was spotted hugging Patriots quarterback Tom Brady after they got off a private jet.Amid the solicitation case in Florida, it is unclear how involved Kraft will be in league business in the coming months. The N.F.L. is preparing not only for talks with television networks but also for negotiations with the players’ union, whose contract expires at the end of next season. Kraft also sits on the finance and compensation committees, and the management council, which represents the league in labor talks.Kraft can be an affable but cunning negotiator, and both his business and people skills were hard to miss in 2011 during negotiations over the collective bargaining agreement. Several owners pushed the league to take a hard line and exploit their leverage over the players’ union after a court ruling in their favor, but Kraft was among a contingent of owners leading negotiations in Washington who saw an opening to push the talks across the finish line. While Kraft shuttled back and forth to Boston, where his wife, Myra, was dying of ovarian cancer, he maintained a direct line of communication with leaders of the players’ union.After the two sides reached a deal, Jeff Saturday, a member of the union’s executive committee, thanked Kraft. “Without him, this deal does not get done,” he said at the time.ESPN, where Saturday works, said he was not available for an interview. But nearly all of Kraft’s associates contacted for this article said Kraft was a careful listener who asked questions and had a knack for proposing solutions. While he does have a temper, they said, he rarely loses it.Kraft has spoken often about the need to put league matters over personal ones. In November 2017, he was interviewed with his oldest son, Jonathan, onstage at a sports industry conference in New York. In a thinly veiled criticism of Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, Kraft urged owners to act as partners and not perceive themselves as “bigger than the league itself.” Jones had threatened to sue Kraft and other owners who wanted to extend Commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract.“It’s more important,” Kraft said, “that the people running the league do the right thing for the league than for any one franchise.”Mark Leibovich contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement