AdvertisementSupported byBy Field Level MediaKareem Abdul-Jabbar, the Hall of Fame center, has put four N.B.A. championship rings and other memorabilia up for auction.Abdul-Jabbar, 71, wrote on his website this month that “much of the proceeds” would benefit his Skyhook Foundation, a charity that helps children learn about science, technology, engineering and math.The rings up for bid are the ones he won with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1980, ’85, ’87 and ’88. Abdul-Jabbar also won league championships in 1971 with the Milwaukee Bucks and in 1982 with the Lakers. Game-used and autographed items — including All-Star rings and uniforms — from his career are also available at the auction, which runs through Saturday.“When it comes to choosing between storing a championship ring or trophy in a room, or providing kids with an opportunity to change their lives, the choice is pretty simple. Sell it all,” wrote Abdul-Jabbar, who is the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader.“Looking back on what I have done with my life, instead of gazing at the sparkle of jewels or gold plating celebrating something I did a long time ago, I’d rather look into the delighted face of a child holding their first caterpillar and think about what I might be doing for their future.”The auction is being conducted by Goldin Auctions. As of Tuesday afternoon, the bidding on his ring from the 1985 N.B.A. championship was up to $85,000, and the bidding on a signed basketball from his final N.B.A. game in 1989 was up to $75,000.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnRachelle Lefevre plays the leader of a law firm specializing in reversing wrongful convictions in a new Fox legal drama. And a Jordan Peele-produced Amazon series revisits Lorena Bobbitt.PROVEN INNOCENT 9 p.m. on Fox. What’s more satisfying than watching justice doled out from the comfort of your couch? The latest legal drama to hit television hopes that the answer is this: watching injustices be reversed. That’s the premise of this new show, which stars Rachelle Lefevre as a lawyer who was once wrongfully convicted of murder and, after having her name cleared, became the leader of a law firm specializing in fighting wrongful sentences. Russell Hornsby plays her legal partner. Kelsey Grammer plays the rotten state’s attorney who put Lefevre’s character behind bars; he’s now her main adversary in the courtroom. The series was created by Danny Strong — one of the creators of “Empire” — and the screenwriter David Elliot.NBA ALL-STAR CELEBRITY GAME 7 p.m. on ESPN. Bojangles’ Coliseum in Charlotte, N.C., is the backdrop of this year’s NBA All-Star Celebrity Game, which pits a “home” team of names like the actor JB Smoove, the television personality Dr. Mehmet Oz and the rapper Rhapsody against an “away” team that includes the comedians Hasan Minhaj and Amanda Seales and the singer Bad Bunny. The rapper Quavo, a member of Migos and, less prominently, last year’s Celebrity Game M.V.P., will also play for the “away” team.LORENA Stream on Amazon. You probably know the story: in June 1993, Lorena Bobbitt cut off her husband’s penis with a kitchen knife. The next year, she was acquitted of criminal charges, but not before she had become a media sensation and the butt of scores of jokes, which often ignored evidence that she’d been a victim of domestic violence. Now, 25 years after her acquittal, she’s telling what happened on her own terms, in this new Jordan Peele-produced documentary series. “It’s like they all missed or didn’t care why I did what I did,” Bobbitt recently told The New York Times. “This is about a victim and a survivor,” she went on to say, “and this is about what’s happening in our world today.”THE NOTE: SHAPING THE SOUND OF NY Stream on Red Bull TV. Alexander Rosner survived the Holocaust and became a respected sound engineer in New York during the disco boom of the ’70s. He talks about his work in this short documentary, and about his latest gig: installing sound systems in churches.PERIOD. END OF SENTENCE. (2018) Stream on Netflix. Rayka Zehtabchi’s Oscar-nominated documentary short looks at the way a village in rural India is transformed by the installation of a sanitary-pad machine. Through that story, it delves into social attitudes regarding menstruation in India — a topic also notably explored in the Indian filmmaker R. Balki’s 2018 feature, “Padman,” which is also streaming on Netflix.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisThe United States Copyright Office said that a dance first popularized on the TV show “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” could not be copyrighted by the actor who created it, according to court documents filed this week.Alfonso Ribeiro, the actor who played Carlton on the show, is one of several performers who have sued video game makers in recent months saying that dances, which can be purchased and then performed by avatars in games, have been stolen from them. Mr. Ribeiro sued Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite Battle Royale, as well as Take-Two Interactive Software, which makes NBA 2K16.But the copyright office was not convinced that what Mr. Ribeiro called the Carlton Dance — in which he enthusiastically swings his arms and sways his hips — was eligible for copyright protection, saying it was a “simple routine,” not complex enough to clear the bar.“That does not surprise me in the least,” said Robert Brauneis, co-director of the intellectual property program at George Washington University Law School.“It’s like a word or a short phrase,” Professor Brauneis said. “The copyright office has always taken the position that words or phrases are not copyrightable, and this is exactly like a word or a phrase in a dance. You could repeat that word or phrase indefinitely — here I’m shaking my hips, here I’m shaking my hips, again and again — but that repetition doesn’t make the fragment subject to copyright protection.”Courts are not bound by the copyright office’s decision and could reach a different conclusion, but Professor Brauneis said the copyright office’s determination would be taken into consideration.Mr. Ribeiro’s lawyer, David L. Hecht, said he planned to ask the copyright office to reconsider, because even if the individual movements are considered simple, the way his clients have arranged those movements should be considered choreographic works.“It’s the same as when you combine notes in a musical composition,” he said. “Those compilations would be entitled to copyright protection under the law.”Mr. Hecht said that Mr. Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications. Two have now been rejected and one is still under consideration. Mr. Hecht said that a request for copyright by the rapper 2 Milly was rejected when he tried to register the Milly Rock, and that he too will ask that the copyright office reconsider. But some of his clients have had better luck. Russell Horning, a teenager known as “Backpack Kid,” was able to register with the office a 30-second dance that Mr. Hecht described as a “variant” of a dance called the Floss.Epic Games and Take-Two Interactive declined to comment on Friday.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by5 PlacesThe NCAA Final Four basketball tournament is in town, and the local chef Brenda Langton serves up five new spots in the Downtown East neighborhood just four blocks away. By Elaine GlusacFrom Downtown East in Minneapolis, it’s only a four-block walk to the U.S. Bank Stadium, the glass-sheathed building that opened in 2016 and is host of the NCAA Final Four basketball tournament from April 6 to 8. The neighborhood is seeing action of its own lately. Beautiful warehouses converted into condos, along with tasteful shops and restaurants, are filling in the once-industrial area. Brenda Langton, the chef and owner of the organic and locally focused Spoonriver restaurant and the founder of the Mill City Farmers Market, both in Downtown East, has seen it all. “It’s a very diverse neighborhood and people come from all over to walk the riverfront in the evening when the lights really make it shine,” she said. Ms. Langton, who was nominated for best restaurateur in 2019 by the James Beard Foundation, shares five new spots in the bustling area.The chef Jamie Malone was last in the neighborhood at the Sea Change restaurant in the Guthrie Theater. Now she’s back at Eastside, turning out oversize dishes like whole roasted duck and pork-stuffed bass for sharing. “I’m so pleased Jamie and her professional team are close by again,” Ms. Langton said. “She throws herself into her work 110 percent and it certainly shows.”305 Washington Avenue South; eastsidempls.comIn addition to a publisher, performance hall and papermaking classes, this literary arts center houses the independent Milkweed Books. “I love, love, love this place,” Ms. Langton said. “The bookstores of our world are dwindling but Open Book makes a real home for literary and book arts.”1011 Washington Avenue South; openbookmn.orgBuilt in 1935 for the Minnesota National Guard, the Armory, a buff-colored stone and brick structure with a vaulted roof, has long been a local landmark. It was once home to the NBA Minneapolis Lakers and the setting for the “1999” music video from Prince, who was a native of Minneapolis. Last year, it reopened as an events venue. “It’s a unique building,” Ms. Langdon said, adding that at 8,400 seats, “it’s a great size for a concert.” Catch footage of Prince projected on the big screen, accompanied by live music, on April 26.500 South 6th Street; armorymn.comSometimes called the Mill District for the flour mills that fronted the river, Downtown East is newly home to this 183-room hotel housed in an early 1900s brick factory, which still has its terra cotta ornaments. “I was so thrilled this building was preserved,” Ms. Langton said. “The juxtaposition of the old buildings with the modern Guthrie here is just beautiful.”708 Third St. South; canopy3.hilton.comFounded in southern Minnesota in 1865, this mill weaves sturdy wool blankets for a new generation of fans of the retro brand, and recently opened its first shop in Downtown East. “I’m thrilled they’re in the neighborhood,” Ms. Langton said, calling the blankets “classic, high quality and warm.”1029 South Washington Avenue; faribaultmill.comFollow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump declared on Friday that he would use emergency powers to fund the construction of a border wall, sidestepping Congress. The announcement met with immediate blowback: Sixteen states are suing, and on late-night TV on Monday, various hosts attacked the president for it.Stephen Colbert and Seth Meyers pointed out that Trump had said on Friday that he “didn’t need to do this,” but was declaring the emergency in order to build the wall “much faster” — a statement that seemed to contradict the very definition of an emergency.“You didn’t need to do this? Then it’s not an emergency! That’s the exact opposite of an emergency. That’s a choice. That’s like saying, ‘I’m having emergency surgery to get butt implants. I didn’t need to do this, but I hate doing squats.” — SETH MEYERS“You don’t say that out loud! [Impersonating Trump] ‘Hello, 911? I would like to call an Uber, but that would take too long. Please, send an ambulance. I want to go to the movies. No, no, no — of course I’m dying. I am dying to see ‘The Lego Movie 2.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTMeyers pointed out that building a wall along a nearly 2,000-mile border didn’t seem like an emergency solution.“Isn’t building a wall kind of a long-term way to approach a supposed ‘emergency’? That’s like trying to save a drowning man by drinking the lake.” — SETH MEYERSBoth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon had some fun with the news that a woman had delivered a baby during a JetBlue flight.“The other day, a woman gave birth to a baby boy on a JetBlue flight. It was stressful, but now JetBlue can finally say they had an early arrival.” — JIMMY FALLON“A woman gave birth aboard a JetBlue flight to Florida this weekend. Said the man next to her: ‘Fine! Take the armrest!’” — SETH MEYERS“Luxury department store Barney’s partnered with a cannabis company to open a high-end boutique in Beverly Hills, where customers can buy accessories such as glass bongs and cannabis-infused candles. You know, for when you want to be chill about how rich you are.” — SETH MEYERS“A woman in England was searching a farm with a metal detector when she found what she thought was a foil-wrapped chocolate coin — only to find out later that it’s a 1,500-year-old solid gold pendant worth a fortune. Yeah, unbelievable: to get that close to finding chocolate only to be disappointed!” — JAMES CORDEN“Happy Presidents’ Day. Yeah, I’ll be honest, this is another American holiday I don’t quite understand. Yeah, you pull a president out of the ground and then if it sees its shadow, there’s six more weeks of democracy? Do I have it right?” — TREVOR NOAHJimmy Fallon persuaded Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry to drop a few wacky phrases into his interviews during the NBA’s All-Star weekend. He really pulled it off. (He also pulled off a mind-boggling alley-oop in the All-Star Game itself. See it all below.)Jonathan Batiste, the “Late Show” bandleader, created greeting cards celebrating Black History Month and Valentine’s Day at the same time. A highlight: the one that says, “My milkshake brings all W.E.B. Du Bois to the yard.”Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts recently announced her plans to seek the Democratic presidential nomination. She’s known as a policy wonk, but she’ll probably have a slightly less heavy-duty conversation when she appears with James Corden on “The Late Late Show” on Tuesday.In this interview with our pop critic, the rapper 21 Savage opens up about his life as an undocumented immigrant, and his detention at the hands of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnRandolph Ross makes the unrecognizable recognizable.By Deb AmlenTHURSDAY PUZZLE — It’s Thursday, so it’s highly likely that you have spent some time staring at the grid, challenging your brain to untangle the tricky clues and unfurl the clever theme before you. This, of course, is a complicated and highly intellectual process that, if it could be boiled down to a single sound, would consist mainly of “What?” It took a while for me to understand Randolph Ross’s theme, but that’s par for the course on most Thursdays. When I finally got it, it was the kind of “Aha!” moment that reached around and slapped me in the back of the head. The slap is one of the best feelings in the world, at least to crossword puzzle solvers. I thought it was very clever, and Mr. Ross explains some further surprising constraints he set for himself in his notes below.It was all because of those sounds in the clues. And none of them were “What?”15A: “It holds water” is a phrase sometimes used to describe an idea that has some positive things going for it, but in this puzzle, we’re looking for something that really does hold water. The answer is STREAM BED, which was an ever-so-slightly awkward entry, in my opinion. I had STREAM_ _ D for the longest time, and the BE that completed the phrase were two of the last letters I filled in.19A: TIL that you need to rack up 501 points to win a game of DARTS. I don’t know how long that takes the average player, but I’m almost certain that the game was designed to keep people in the pub and buying more pints.30A: I’m not one for banning words or phrases from puzzles, but the phrase AH SO stuck in my craw. It was used in the old Charlie Chan movies (where Chan was played by an white actor and his way of speaking was racist to say the least), and I can remember when it was also used outside of movies to demean Asian-Americans. Yes, it’s not clued that way (“‘I can see clearly now’”), but how many people in 2019 really say “AH SO” when they understand something? I’d be much more likely to say “Ah, O.K.” or “Oh, O.K.”38A: I’m ashamed to say that I didn’t really learn how to take care of my car until midlife, but when you are trying to play catch up in that way, you tend to remember these things. The air in tires is measured in pounds per square inch, which is abbreviated as P.S.I.57A: Read that as U.N. VOTE, not UNVOTE. 6D: If you are from New York City, hand up if you confidently scribbled or typed M.T.A. in this slot because we have an L line in our subway system and we also have a tendency to believe that New York is the center of the universe. But look at the clue a little closer: The L is in quotes. This should be read as “el,” which was abbreviated from the word “elevated” until (warning: joke ahead) even that got to be too much, so Chicagoans abbreviated it further to simply “L.” The answer is C.T.A., short for the Chicago Transit Authority.11D: This clue — “Thunder, but not Lightning” — could have been much trickier if the word Lightning hadn’t been capitalized, but the editors aren’t that cruel, at least not on a Thursday. This is a “veiled capital” clue, which is covered in our solving guide in the “Cracking the Harder Clues” section. This type of clue hides a proper noun, which would have a capitalized first letter, at the beginning of the clue sentence, which would also be capitalized. So the Thunder is not an atmospheric rumble, it’s an N.B.A. TEAM, whereas the Lightning is not.56D: Tegan and SARA are identical twins and an indie pop duo from Calgary, Alberta.Mr. Ross has put together an interesting set of word pairs that also happen to be real things, like “Blue jay.” The theme clues have two parts: The first part is an adjective and the second part is a noun. Yes, I know a lot of phrases are made up of adjectives and nouns, but bear with me. We’re not told what we’re supposed to do with these adjectives and nouns, and you may be stuck wondering about that for a while, but this is where that slap in the head comes in.It turns out that those nouns are homophones for letters of the alphabet. So “jays” stands for “J’s,” and the color “Blue” indicates two things that begin with the letter J that are blue. For example, the answer to “Blue jays,” is JASMINE AND JEANS, which, on the surface, sounds like a somewhat offbeat perfume. But if you put “blue” before each of those J words, you get BLUE JASMINE and BLUEJEANS.Similarly, at 26A, the entry for “Honey bees” is BADGERS AND BEARS, because the animal kingdom has both HONEY BADGERS and HONEY BEARS. There are three more theme entries, but I’ll let you find them.The theme entries started with JASMINE AND JEANS. I noted this would make a 15-letter entry with a cute clue (“Blue jays”) that could be paralleled with “Dry eyes,” “Honey bees,” “High seas,” and “Green peas.” Coming up with four 15-letter entries and a 9-letter entry for the middle was a lot for a daily puzzle, but I didn’t want to give any of them up and I thought the challenge to craft a 72 word grid that could hold them all would be something I wanted to try. To make it even harder for myself, I kept the parts of each pairing in alphabetical order.Designing the theme entries this way probably caused me to have a few more abbreviations than I would have liked, which may displease some solvers. I think the trade-off for an abundance of long theme entries was worth it in this puzzle. I know sometimes it’s not, and a constructor should knock out the weakest theme entry for the sake of the rest of the grid; but I managed to get a real tight theme and the personal constructing pleasure of crafting an interlock that held so many long answers.RESAND was also an entry I didn’t particularly like — it’s not a word most, if any, solvers would use or hear. I spent a long time trying to get rid of it. However, when I thought of the clue “Smooth over” I thought that would compensate for the not so great “re” word. RSVPED and NBA TEAM, with their consecutive consonants both got me out of trouble in the grid. I also came up with the original UN VOTE to help me complete the fill.This was a fun crossword constructing exercise for me. I hope it’s also an “aha moment” for solvers when the theme answers are discovered.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA neat mental trick to understand the climate battle ahead.By Farhad ManjooOpinion Columnist“The Uninhabitable Earth” by David Wallace-Wells is the most terrifying book I have ever read. Its subject is climate change, and its method is scientific, but its mode is Old Testament. The book is a meticulously documented, white-knuckled tour through the cascading catastrophes that will soon engulf our warming planet: death by water, death by heat, death by hunger, death by thirst, death by disease, death by asphyxiation, death by political and civilizational collapse.And should they escape death, your children and grandchildren might subsist instead through proto-apocalyptic ruin. There is a strong chance that warming will reduce global economic output by more than 20 percent and a chance that output could fall by half — a toll you might better describe as at least one, and possibly two or three, Great Depressions. War will not merely break out; a continuing, all-out resource war might be the steady-state of the next chapter of human civilization.In 2017, when Mr. Wallace-Wells, a writer at New York Magazine, published similarly dire projections in a blockbuster article, he was criticized even by some climate scientists for reveling in the bleakest case. But his piece was one of the first articles I’d read that honestly drew out the most horrific possibilities of climate change, and in the two years since — years of hurricane and monsoon, fire and flood, mud slides, heat waves, the polar vortex — Mr. Wallace-Wells’s imagine-the-worst approach has become prescient. [Farhad Manjoo will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @fmanjoo]The Earth keeps surpassing all superlatives, right before our eyes. “The weather is cooperating,” Mr. Wallace-Wells told me recently.We should expect it to continue cooperating. I read this book with an unfolding mix of horror and hopelessness, the way you might learn of a terminal diagnosis that affects yourself and your family and everyone else you might ever hope to know. My Google searches over the past few weeks include queries like “global warming best cities” and “prepping 101.”What so riled me up was not just the projected devastation but also the obvious incapacity of our political system to even begin to comprehend the suffering to come, let alone mitigate it. It struck me that what we need to fight climate change is not just some new political plan but a whole new politics — the sort of thorough reimagining of stakes that humanity has only previously achieved during times of total war.But climate change is not war. There is no enemy, other than ourselves. And we are very bad, as individuals or collectively, at fighting ourselves over anything.This thought chilled me.Then, one late night after taking a dose of a kind of sleep medicine that is now widely available in California, I had an epiphany:Pretend it’s aliens. “Pretend” is a strong word, but we live in an age of delusion. People who think vaccines are accursed; NBA players who believe the planet is shaped more like a Frisbee than a basketball; full-grown adults who maintain, against all evidence, that immigration poses an existential threat to the United States — every day, we encounter rivers of rank ridiculousness. And for the most part we have come to grudgingly accept this ubiquity as the price of living in a digital wonderland.Yet if delusion can elevate the trivial to the top of cable news, why couldn’t it perform the same sleight of hand for the actually important?Last year, Avi Loeb, a renowned astrophysicist at Harvard, co-authored a paper speculating that a recently discovered interstellar object named Oumuamua “may be a fully operational probe sent intentionally to Earth’s vicinity by an alien civilization.” Mr. Loeb’s suggestion has been pooh-poohed by his academic colleagues. But experts, schmexperts, right?Allow yourself to imagine that Oumuamua isn’t just space rock. What if the thing was indeed captained by little green people, gangly and ferocious? And what if their leader let us know her plans for us — perhaps via tweet?I’m joking, sure; and I’ll admit I had a lot of fun playing out the scenes here. I’m picturing Logan Paul, elevated from YouTube star into commander of the U.S. Space Force, briefing President Trump on a plan to turn coal-power plants into peace museums as a way to fight the aliens. The president is on board, but he has one question: “Can we save America without saving the earth?”But I am not spinning out this yarn merely as a dumb joke about a blinkered president. Even for people who do believe in global warming, pretending that aliens are attacking the earth accomplishes a neat mental trick. It helps to frame the scope of the threat — civilizational, planet-encompassing — while also suggesting how we might respond: immediately, collectively and for as long as it takes.Before I understood the horrors that await us, I had thought of climate change as one of a grab-bag of important issues on the lefty to-do list: Give people health care, help them pay for college, fix the climate. The scale of potential devastation renders such visions laughable. Mitigating climate change and attending to its fallout isn’t going to be a policy plan passed by the next progressive administration. Instead, like the internet and nuclear weapons, the climate is going to be a permanent new feature of our politics. This will be a long-term existential battle that will require remaking every part of society, that might consume other worthy parts of a progressive agenda, that may involve costly and politically unpopular changes to our way of life for years to come, and will necessarily make some people worse off than if we did nothing. But that will be justified, because we understand the stakes: we are fighting murderous aliens.And all the while, the problem keeps getting worse. Not long ago, a planet that warms by 2 degrees Celsius over the course of the coming century was considered an unimaginable catastrophe to be avoided at any cost. Today, 2 degrees — a level of warming that might induce death from air pollution on the order of “25 Holocausts,” Mr. Wallace-Wells notes — is looking like our best hope. On our current track, we’re shooting for at least 3 degrees of warming, according to the United Nations; according to the Trump administration, we’re headed for at least 4 degrees.Four degrees of warming will wreak devastation unparalleled in human history. Hundreds of millions will die prematurely, large sections of the planet will be rendered uninhabitable, great herds of humanity will be on the run, and in the most prosperous remaining places, economic growth of any kind might be the exception rather than the norm.That’s the current path. Yet just about nobody in any position of power talks about global warming with anything reflecting the required level of honesty and alarm. The Green New Deal, the high-level strategy document put out last week by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and her allies, lacks any specificity for how we might accomplish its goals. Not even democratic socialists will frankly describe the costs of averting a warming planet. And the swiftness with which critics pounced on the Green New Deal suggests that even as the climate gets undeniably less hospitable, we’ll still fall into the same old political trap in which climate remains a small, partisan issue rather than the all-consuming emergency it ought to be.The whole thing is tragic and lazy, when what we need is heroism and bravery. If the aliens attacked, we’d do better. I’m sure of it. We would understand the stakes in the battle ahead. We would apprehend the necessity of sacrifice and perseverance. We would be able to perceive what is happening to our planet and our species as what it plainly is: a war for survival.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisIn 1973, the performer Hugo Zacchini sued Scripps‐Howard Broadcasting after one of its news programs aired his entire act on television — an act in which he shot himself out of a cannon at an Ohio county fair and landed in a net 200 feet away.The case made it all the way to the Supreme Court, which found in his favor, saying, essentially, that if someone could watch the whole thing on television, why would they bother to get off the couch and see it in person?Today, a new set of cases is nudging the legal boundaries of who controls certain performances. This dispute centers on dancing avatars in Fortnite Battle Royale, one of the biggest video games in the world, and whether the moves they do are owned by somebody else.Three performers have sued Epic Games, which makes Fortnite, an addictive, money-minting juggernaut of a survival game where players fight it out to stay alive while they kill everybody else. The game is free to download, but players purchase add-ons as they go along, including a rotating offering of dance moves called “emotes.”Among those moves, according to the complaints, filed beginning in December in Federal District Court in Los Angeles, is an enthusiastic back-and-forth arm-swinging motion that looks just like the Floss, a speedy little dance created by Russell Horning, a teenager from Lawrenceville, Ga., who goes by the name Backpack Kid.There is also a snappy number called Fresh that looks uncannily like the Carlton Dance done by Alfonso Ribeiro, the actor who played Carlton on the show “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.”And there is a swishy-swaying motion, which the complaint says is identical to the Milly Rock, created by the rapper 2 Milly.“People book me, they pay me to come perform the song and do the dance,” 2 Milly said in an interview. “They’re stealing from me.”Mr. Ribeiro, 2 Milly and Backpack Kid’s mother (on his behalf) are suing Epic Games for copyright infringement. They are also suing Take-Two Interactive Software, maker of the NBA 2K games, which also allow players to buy the dances.The plaintiffs’ lawyer, David L. Hecht, said that his firm has spoken with a “significant number” of people about bringing similar claims and that he has hired a team of people, mostly in their 20s, to play video games for him as research.Mr. Hecht said more suits are in the works, and a quick internet search suggests he could easily fill a courtroom with clients. One video posted on YouTube shows 58 Fortnite emotes, including fairly simple gestures and high-energy dances, alongside what appear to be their original references. The video has been viewed more than 28 million times.Mr. Hecht said that side-by-side comparisons of his clients’ dances and the Fortnite emotes show that “the movements of the entire body are being duplicated.”Epic Games said it would not comment on ongoing litigation. Take-Two did not respond to a request for comment.The companies have not yet filed their defenses in court, though they are likely to argue that the dance moves cannot be copyrighted. The lawsuits are among several recent cases testing copyright laws that were written in a vastly different technological age. Indeed, as digital animation has become richly vivid and detailed, even who owns the rights to tattoos drawn on athletes’ bodies has become an issue in sports video games.But while there is plenty of case law regarding the copyrighting of songs and written works, there is far less in the record regarding choreography. One case several years ago involved Bikram Choudhury, the now-disgraced yoga instructor, who tried to copyright a “hot yoga” sequence as a choreographic work. He lost.Several intellectual property lawyers suggested there have not been a lot of choreography cases because there is not a lot of money in choreography.And while they were tickled by the Fortnite cases (“Fortnite meets ‘Flossing,’ it’s the perfect storm of things!” said Jeanne Fromer, a professor at N.Y.U. law school), they were generally pessimistic about the lawsuits’ chances.When deciding if a dance is eligible for copyright, courts look at a combination of factors, including its level of creativity, its complexity or length, and whether the work was independently created. You can’t copyright a musical note or a word, for example, but string enough of them together and you’ve got a song you can own. Individual dance steps are likewise not copyrightable, according to the copyright office’s rule book. And the dances targeted in Fortnite are all quite short.“The question here is really an unlitigated question, which is what is the minimum quantum necessary for a choreographic work?” said David Nimmer, an expert in copyright law. “Is there enough here to have a choreographic work, or are they just the basic building blocks, like words are the basic building blocks of poems, and nobody can own it.”Mr. Hecht argues that what’s used in Fortnite are “the most identifiable, signature aspects of those original performances.” The fact that the dances are available individually for specific prices — about $8 for the Fresh and $5 for the Floss, according to the complaints — makes their sale especially egregious, according to Mr. Hecht.Mr. Hecht, along with Chance the Rapper, has also accused Epic Games of exploiting the works of black artists in particular, though in the case of Fortnite, the YouTube clip of 58 emotes shows plenty of work by performers of other ethnicities.Even if a dance is deemed long enough, there are other hurdles. For example, the United States Copyright Office will not register what it calls a social dance, like ballroom dancing or break dancing.Thomas Kadri, a resident fellow at the Information Society Project at Yale Law School, said that if Fortnite has copied moves, “it does strike me as a little unfair.”But if every move could be copyrighted, he said, it could stifle the creation of new work: “It becomes very difficult when every building block of culture becomes somebody’s property in a way that can exclude people from using it.”Another argument in the Fortnite lawsuits is that those shimmying avatars are violating the performers’ “right of publicity,” which gives someone control over things like their likeness, name and voice. The human cannonball dispute was this kind of case, and Vanna White once sued Samsung for an ad featuring a blond, begowned robot flipping over giant letters. Both Ms. White and the cannonball, Mr. Zacchini, won, but intellectual property lawyers said this argument, too, is likely a long shot against Fortnite.“Think about how many people want to dance at a club on a Saturday night versus how many people want to shoot themselves out of a cannon,” said Robert Brauneis, a co-director of the intellectual property program at George Washington University Law School. “I think the court would take into account what kind of activity this is going to burden.”Ms. Fromer, the New York University law professor, said that she, too, would expect these suits to fail in the face of current copyright law, but given the power of memes and video snippets in our culture, she wondered if they should.“I’m more intrigued by whether we ought to be re-evaluating copyright law in a world where we have bite-sized works and larger works, as well,” she said.“There is money to be made in the video game space. The question really is who deserves it.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer VineyardWatching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Until we get the updated weather report from Punxsutawney Phil, it might remain best to stay inside, stay warm and stream. Below are the most interesting of what we’ve found among the new TV series and movies coming to the major streaming services in February, followed by a roundup of all the best new titles in all genres. (Streaming services occasionally change schedules without giving notice.)‘Generation Wealth’Starts streaming: Feb. 1, on Amazon.It can be hard to tell whether the current obsession with the lifestyles of the rich and famous — now often referred to as Kardashian Syndrome — is old hat, or a sign of something seriously wrong with our society. The photographer and filmmaker Lauren Greenfield investigates modern celebrity worship and the rampant consumerism that feeds into it by talking to bond traders, porn stars, child beauty pageant queens and the writer Bret Easton Ellis. Her film is most insightful, though, when she turns the camera on herself and her family and takes stock of their own values and aspirations. Could they be heading in the same sad direction as her other subjects?—‘Russian Doll’ Starts streaming: Feb. 1, on Netflix.The many-layered “Russian Doll” is a sort of downtown “Groundhog Day” — Nadia (Natasha Lyonne), a video game programmer, dies on the night of her 36th birthday party in the East Village, then wakes up to relive the same night and the same party all over again. And again. And again … Did she take a bad drug? Is she losing her mind? Or is something more existential in play? Lyonne, who created the show with Amy Poehler and Leslye Headland, is a revelation in this cleverly constructed, nearly perfect character study. —‘Velvet Buzzsaw’ Starts streaming: Feb. 1, on Netflix.This supernatural satire takes us inside a pompous art scene in which the latest buzz surrounds the disturbing work of a recently deceased painter. The artist’s last wish was that all of his work be destroyed, but (spoiler alert) that doesn’t happen. Unpleasant, demonic occurrences unfold for anyone attempting to make a profit off the art, including a smug critic played by Jake Gyllenhaal. The writer-director Dan Gilroy (“Nightcrawler”) finds plenty to laugh about even among the carnage. —‘Don’t Worry, He Won’t Get Far on Foot’Starts streaming: Feb. 8, on Amazon.John Callahan (Joaquin Phoenix) became a heavy drinker at the age of 12 and, after a car accident, a quadriplegic at 21. Despite his troubled beginnings, Callahan went on to become a noted cartoonist who managed to find caustic humor in the subject of disability. In “Don’t Worry,” based on Callahan’s memoir, the director Gus Van Sant also finds biting wit and brings an airy sweetness to this offbeat tale. The supporting cast, including Jonah Hill, Jack Black and Carrie Brownstein, is excellent. But this is Phoenix’s movie: He creates a portrait of a man who must learn how to bear this seemingly unbearable direction his life has suddenly taken and do so while making others laugh.—‘High Flying Bird’Starts streaming: Feb. 8, on Netflix.In this intimate, complex basketball drama from Steven Soderbergh, Ray (André Holland) is a top sports agent strategizing to get his players paid during an NBA lockout — which means deftly navigating a maze of contract negotiations, power structures and racial dynamics before the clock runs out. Soderbergh shot “High Flying Bird” on an iPhone (as he did with his previous feature “Unsane”), reportedly in just two weeks. But this doesn’t feel like a rush job: Instead, Tarell Alvin McCraney’s (“Moonlight”) tight, subversive script feels urgent and thrilling even though most of the action takes place on the sidelines or in offices, not on the court. —‘PEN15’ Starts streaming: Feb. 8, on Hulu.Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle are fully grown adults, but in this coming-of-age comedy series co-produced by The Lonely Island, the actresses play versions of their 13-year-old selves in seventh grade. (All of their middle-school classmates are played by actual 13-year-olds. Wisely, when one of their characters has her first kiss, an adult’s lips stand in for the teenage actor’s in close up, minimizing the ick factor.) The series is as strange as it sounds, and maybe a little strained; but it mostly works because Erskine and Konkle are not that tall and slouch a lot. “Pen15” shows there’s fun to be had in mining the cognitive dissonance of grown-ups inserted into adolescent situations.—‘Won’t You Be My Neighbor’ Starts streaming: Feb. 9, on HBO.Morgan Neville’s documentary about Fred Rogers, the nicest neighbor in the history of television, is not an exposé revealing dark truths or secret scandals about the man inside the cardigan sweater. Instead, we learn that Rogers was a genuinely good person who saw his long-running show as a kind of ministry for children. (One of his sons calls him “the second Christ.”) Rogers himself might have felt as if he failed in his efforts to counter more popular, violent programming, but spending time with him here will make the world seem like a better place, at least for a little while.—‘The Umbrella Academy’ Season 1Starts streaming: Feb. 15, on Netflix.If Wes Anderson were inclined to make an emo superhero movie, it might turn out like “The Umbrella Academy.” Based on the hit graphic novel series by Gerard Way, the leader of the band My Chemical Romance, the series concerns a very dysfunctional family in which several gifted children have been adopted by an eccentric billionaire, given numbers for names and brought up to save the world. They’re also apparently in a competition to see which of them can be the most deadpan — while fending off an apocalypse, of course.—‘The Giant Beast That Is the Global Economy’ Starts streaming: Feb. 22, on Amazon.Remember the quick, funny, fourth-wall-breaking cameos sprinkled into Adam McKay’s “The Big Short,” featuring the likes of Margot Robbie and Selena Gomez? McKay has taken that same technique and stretched it out into an eight-part docu-series hosted by Kal Penn. The film includes comedians like Zach Galifianakis, Pete Holmes and Rashida Jones, who help explain such knotty subjects as bitcoin, counterfeiting and money laundering (which is way too easy to do, by the way). Should you be appalled, or just take notes?—‘Three Identical Strangers’ Starts streaming: Feb. 26, on Hulu.This disturbing documentary profiles a set of triplets separated as infants and adopted by three separate families. As young adults, the brothers reconnect by chance and even land a cameo in the Madonna movie “Desperately Seeking Susan.” Squint your eyes and this could almost pass for a feel-good reunion story. But it turns out social engineering has been at play and an insidious narrative is revealed. The more the brothers learn about their past, the more they wonder who they really are, and why.Also Arriving This Month:New to Amazon Prime Video: “The ABC Murders” (Feb. 1), “The Blues Brothers” (Feb. 1), “Four Weddings and a Funeral” (Feb. 1), “Marathon Man” (Feb. 1), “The Matrix” (Feb. 1), “The Portrait of a Lady” (Feb. 1), “Terminator 2: Judgment Day” (Feb. 1), “Thelma & Louise” (Feb. 1), “Wayne’s World” (Feb. 1), “The Expanse” Season 3 (Feb. 8), “White Dragon” Season 1 (Feb. 8) and “The Party” (Feb. 17).—New to Hulu: “The Big Lebowski” (Jan. 1), “Born on the Fourth of July” (Feb. 1), “Caddyshack” (Feb. 1), “Capote” (Feb. 1), “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” (Feb. 1), “Dazed and Confused” (Feb. 1), “Field of Dreams” (Feb. 1), “Four Weddings and a Funeral” (Feb. 1), “Hairspray” (Feb. 1), “Marathon Man” (Feb. 1), “Mississippi Burning” (Feb. 1), “Moonstruck” (Feb. 1), “Mystic Pizza” (Feb. 1), “The Portrait of a Lady” (Feb. 1), “The Royal Tenenbaums” (Feb. 1), “The Secret Garden” (Feb. 1), “Terminator 2: Judgment Day” (Feb. 1), “Thelma & Louise” (Feb. 1), “Three Kings” (Feb. 1), “Wayne’s World” (Feb. 1), “Wedding Crashers” (Feb. 1), “Legion” Season 2 (Feb. 3), “The Party” (Feb. 17) and “The Sisters Brothers” (Feb. 18).—New to HBO: “The Bourne Identity” (Feb. 1), “Collateral” (Feb. 1), “The Pelican Brief” (Feb. 1), “Sunshine” (Feb. 1), “2 Dope Queens” Season 2 Premiere (Feb. 8), “Deadpool 2” (Feb. 16), “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver” Season 6 Premiere (Feb. 18), “It’s a Hard Truth Ain’t It” (Feb. 23) and “O.G.” (Feb. 23).—New to Netflix: “About a Boy” (Feb. 1), “As Good as It Gets” (Feb. 1), “Billy Elliot” (Feb. 1), “Hairspray” (Feb. 1), “Jaws” (Feb. 1), “Pretty in Pink” (Feb. 1), “The Edge of Seventeen” (Feb. 1), “Velvet Buzzsaw” (Feb. 1), “Ray Romano: Right Here, Around the Corner” (Feb. 5), “One Day at a Time” Season 3 (Feb. 8), “Patriot Act with Hasan Minhaj” Volume 2 (Feb. 10), “Ken Jeong: You Complete Me, Ho” (Feb. 14), “The Breaker Upperers” (Feb. 15), “Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy” (Feb. 15), “The 40-Year-Old Virgin” (Feb. 16) and “Paddleton” (Feb. 22).Advertisement