At the height of the space race, Nick Piantanida had a dream and a reach that far exceeded his grasp: He would climb to the edge of space and break the free-fall parachute record. Watch   Stolen Balloon   Setting A World Record 
Director's Statement   The Vault   Film page »
July 30 -- Angry Sky
In 1965, a truck driver and exotic pet dealer from New Jersey decided that he could join an elite group of men who had been to the final frontier -- space. 

In 1965, a truck driver and exotic pet dealer from New Jersey decided that he could join an elite group of men who had been to the final frontier -- space. 30 for 30 on Twitter »Buy the "30 for 30 Fifth Anniversary" box set. Available exclusively at Groupon ».Sonny Vaccaro rose from humble steel town roots to become the most valuable marketing asset in the $13 billion athletic-shoe industry.He started in four straight Final Fours and helped Duke win two titles. So why has Christian Laettner been disliked by so many for so long? You know about Team USA's "Miracle On Ice" at Lake Placid. Now see the story from the Soviet players' perspective.The Miami Hurricanes rose from the ashes and won a BCS title -- only to return to more scandal.Randy Moss's journey from an isolated town to the NFLLivan and Orlando Hernandez rode their arms to freedomThe Boz reflects on mistakes he madeWhen the Knicks ruled the NBA from the GardenA 6.9 earthquake rolled through Candlestick ParkMobster Henry Hill helped fix college gamesThe battle for the 1986 Tour de France. The Detroit Pistons of the late 1980s and early '90s seemed willing to do anything to win. It earned them the title: Bad Boys. A look at the rivalries that once made the Big East great. The Tonya Harding and Nancy Kerrigan saga captured the attention of the world 20 years ago.
The interconnected journey of Maurice Clarett and Jim Tressel.A pair of New Yorkers went to Tennessee and formed one of college basketball's most unforgettable tandems.A look at the improbable run of Jimmy Connors at the 1991 U.S. Open and how he became a polarizing and provocative personality.How a scam of epic proportions plagued an iconic NHL franchise.A look at the November 1980 re-match between Sugar Ray Leonard and Roberto Duran and how two infamous words haunt both.The Spirits of St. Louis, a controversial team that played only two seasons in the ABA, who continue to exist in the most unusual fashion.
The remarkable life of Eddie Aikau, legendary Hawaiian big wave surfer, pioneering lifeguard and doomed crew member of a Polynesian voyage. The 1983 NFL Draft  was highlighted by a record six QBs taken in the first round, including future Hall of Famers John Elway and Dan Marino. In 1983, the late Jim Valvano led NC State through a series of nine overtime and 1-point games. But one game and one play will be remembered forever.Many athletes are sucked into bad financial decisions after years of living the high life. A story of the dark side of success. The 100-meter final at the Seoul Games was riddled in scandal. This one race still haunts the eight men who took part. A story of the most important document in sports history -- James Naismith's original rules of basketball -- and the quest to return it home. In 1984, 17-year-old Ben Wilson was America's most talented basketball prospect until the sweet-natured boy was senselessly murdered.In 1962, the University of Mississippi erupted in violence over integration while swelling with pride over an unbeaten football team.Bo Jackson hit 500-foot homeruns and ran over linebackers.A look at the man and the myths that captured our collective imagination. 