we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesfootballer for liverpool fc and egypt.are you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @mosalahmohamed salah retweeted timethanks to john oliver for your kind words... i’m honoured to have made the #time100 list for 2019. always ready to help make the world a better place https://twitter.com/time/status/1118474207355076611 …mohamed salah added,pic.twitter.com/qzpls5epe296pic.twitter.com/9wecv6qses draw time  #totalafcon2019pic.twitter.com/x4icok7kjgخالص العزاء في وفاة الفنان محمود الجندي ربنا يرحمه ويغفر له.pic.twitter.com/wwzbdti09spic.twitter.com/5omfmwnvbopic.twitter.com/gwulsrx0mhpic.twitter.com/ohebxcqya3getting closer... so believe harder pic.twitter.com/zleuk0hgjmpic.twitter.com/sfnfrtqzr3pic.twitter.com/tkkwustf8hpic.twitter.com/idlht081x0pic.twitter.com/3klf2ljnljpic.twitter.com/wm6fxe69as#ynwapic.twitter.com/tjd94ftlz8dreadful news coming out of new zealand this morning. my condolences go out to the families of those innocent victims who lost their lives in this act of pure evil.pic.twitter.com/y6ymrjuzmupic.twitter.com/u524ozkniiمندهش جدًا من "بعض" الناس اللي واقفة ومستنية أي خطأ أو كلام علشان يفسروه بالطريقة اللي تيجي على مزاجهم...من الواضح أن دا بقى الطبيعي وتصيد واضح على كلام وأخطاء غير مقصودة.

          @mosalah hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  