"We Are" chronicles Penn State's path from the 2011 scandal that resulted in the removal of a statue of legendary coach Joe Paterno to the design of its community-encompassing replacement. Watch    More »"We Are" chronicles Penn State's path from the 2011 scandal that resulted in the removal of a statue of legendary coach Joe Paterno to the design of its community-encompassing replacement. Sculptor Jonathan Cramer, a Penn State alum, drew inspiration for its creation from the 1948 PSU football team that overcame racial adversity with the still-used mantra "We Are Penn State."Jay Bulger attended Fordham University in the Bronx, NY, where he studied business and boxed in several New York Golden Gloves. He has directed numerous music videos and commercials for bands such as The Hold Steady, Nightmare of You, Permanent Me, Playradioplay, and Seasick Mama.As a writer, he has published feature articles for Rolling Stone, New York Magazine, and GQ. For Bulger's article "The Devil and Ginger Baker" in Rolling Stone, Bulger lived with the rock legend in South Africa where Ginger had spent the previous decade living in seclusion. The article and the numerous hours of interviews Bulger captured on film became the premise for his documentary "Beware of Mr. Baker," and in the spring of 2010, Bulger returned to South Africa with a small film crew to finish making the film. "Beware of Mr. Baker" premiered at the 2012 South by Southwest Film Festival and won the Grand Jury Prize for Best Documentary. The film would go on to win numerous awards around the world. In December, 2015, Bulger directed his second film. Based on Paul Bowles book, "Their Heads are Green and Their Hands are Blue." The film was shot over the course of several months in Morocco. Produced by Academy Award nominee, Andrew Karsch, the film is slated for a 2016 release. Bulger is currently in post production on his third film for Netflix, a wide sweeping documentary about boxing in the United States of America. Produced by Manadalay, the "Sweet Science" will be released this spring.Joshua Shelov is a staff writer and director at Maggievision Productions in New York. He most recently co-directed the ESPN 30 for 30 "#BringBackSungWoo."Shelov wrote the screenplay for the feature film "Green Street Hooligans" (2005), starring Elijah Wood, and directed and co-wrote "The Best and the Brightest" (2010), starring Neil Patrick Harris.He is the co-creator of ESPN's award-winning web series "Mayne Street", starring Kenny Mayne, Aubrey Plaza, Ben Schwartz, Jon Glaser, and Alison Becker.Shelov is an Adjunct Professor in the Film Department of Yale University, where he created the seminar Storytelling For The Screen.Buy the "30 for 30 Fifth Anniversary" box set. Available exclusively at Groupon ».30 for 30 on Twitter »