we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yescivil engineer, sports editor @goalar #alahly #jft74 #mufcare you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @belalmohameddالاهلى هو الوحيد فعلا اللى يقدر يفرحنا ويغير الموود بتاع اليوم للأحسن مهما كنت متعكنن، الحمد لله على نعمة الاهليشكراً على الليلة العظيمة دي والله @spursofficial @mancity5 minutes. #gameofthronespic.twitter.com/c7htu3jzz5#nightking
#jonsnowthe dragon and the wolf. 

the final season begins in 90 minutes. #gameofthronespic.twitter.com/6x7bgzt4hkلا تسريبات ايه نتفرج بهدوء يا جماعة الله يرضي عنكماشتقنا والله اشتقنا @gameofthronesالخبر اتمسح من الموقع .. تقريباً ده كان درافت لو الفريق خرج من الكونفدرالية :d#الزمالك قرر تعين خالد جلال مدرب عام لجروس بصلاحات فنيةفي الزاوية التي يسكن بها الشيطانpic.twitter.com/qxejelsmae@sterling7 روح يا شيخ ربنا يعمر بيتكستييرلينج اووه كابتن ماي كابتنصباح الخير، متبقي 13:40 ساعة24 ساعة ونص انا بكره الوداعيات جدا وبتمنى انها تكون محصلتش او مش هتحصللا انت ترجع الغيط يا رمضانفين التسلل ياولاد الوسخةيااعممم ششوووءءططنصره اليوم هو المني

          @belalmohamedd hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  