this app is only available on the app store for ios devices.goal fantasy football is back for the 2018/2019 season, featuring the biggest competitions from around the world! use your £75 million budget to pick players to score you points based on their performance in real life matches. this really is the ultimate fantasy football app!with the return of scheduled weekly transfers, live and interactive newsfeed, achievements, match centre powered by opta, social mini leagues and our unique head-to-head feature; this app will keep you coming back for more every single day.*** problems updating? delete the app and re-install, you won't lose any data. please contact feedback_goal_uk@fantasyiteam.com if you have any issues***game features:be truly mobile!playing fantasy football can be difficult when you're away from your mac or pc; goal fantasy football changes this by allowing you to make those important managerial decisions while on the move with your smartphone. simply sign-up within the app, pick a team, activate and start playing!be an expert!be a fantasy football expert by selecting the best players from any of the teams available. then decide on your team name and choose a badge from a selection of carefully crafted identities. be involved!join a friend's mini league or create your own, challenge other teams to head-to-head matches or compete in competitions to win game credits. be smart!monitor the player daq index and make profits to boost your budget by reviewing player prices (which fluctuate depending on their performance and popularity) and making shrewd transfers at the right moment.be updated!view live scores, results and fixture details to keep track of what's happening on and off the pitch. our feeds are updated real time so you'll always be in touch with the very latest developments.be social!add your facebook and twitter details in and you’ll get a league view of all your social friends. also check out the busy newsfeed and forums for news and banter, then comment, share or publish your own content.apple is not a sponsor of, or responsible for conducting any promotions by goal or perform group ltd.all trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective ownersversion 4.0.1goal fantasy football is back for the 2018/2019 season, featuring the biggest competitions from around the world!my friends can check my lineups. lineups shouldnt be shown to other members in the league. i hope you get it fixed because most of my friends find it annoying and are not thinking of joining the league. thanks1. it has a super league which is all leagues and a bol and other smaller ones which is great2. you can easily make your own mini league with your friends and you can make emblems and team names. great.3. it has lots of fun little features such as in the mini league( the best part) you can offer some banter and they have awards weekly for the mini league which is great4. it has soccer news on the app to keep you updated. perfect. (i know no great :))5. the app loaded fine for me but i am commenting this like a month later than the other guy6. the fantasy dynamics are really good. it awards different points for different positions which is great7. all in all you should get it and share it with friends. my mini league pin is 2355 so join and have some fun! the only con is that defensive midfielders don't get the points they deserve like poohs. defenders do tho because they get clean sheets.i think it's unfair to defender  and def-midfielders.a defender can play well in whole match but by another's mistake his team might not get clean sheet. and for smaller team it's tough to have clean sheet.for a defensive midfielder it's tough to make a clear assist and they also have to help their defence too.my suggestion is to add points for defender's tackle winning rate and midfielder's pass accuracy.if these problems are solved this is definitely a 5 star app...requires ios 10.0 or later. compatible with iphone, ipad, and ipod touch.english, german, spanishwith family sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app.