We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter?YesStream the entire 30 for 30 library on ESPN+Are you sure you want to view these Tweets? Viewing Tweets won't unblock @30for30Was Daniel LaRusso's crane kick in "The Karate Kid" illegal? 

Well, we gave it some thought ...pic.twitter.com/ojvN346ZkgOur next 30 for 30, "The Dominican Dream" premieres April 30th on ESPNpic.twitter.com/dufHGRRVrAA man of the people, Junior Seau had a way of making everyone feel like his "buddy."

"Seau" makes its TV debut tonight at 9 p.m. on ESPN.pic.twitter.com/0sjdEzFzhFFinish this sentence: "What if I told you ..."pic.twitter.com/q9a2WtENqoWhat if I told you, the hardest hit is the one we never see coming.pic.twitter.com/EGYlIQwRF1Finish this sentence: "What if I told you ..."pic.twitter.com/uKpIzDReOWCoach Cal will be at Kentucky for life, and he has a unique perspective on winning future championships.pic.twitter.com/qYU5saM9Sb35 years ago, the Mayflower trucks rolled out of Baltimore and the Colts were gone.pic.twitter.com/abkbuwoIUqOn This Date: In 1992, Christian Laettner gave people yet another reason to hate him with "The Shot." (via @30for30)pic.twitter.com/0Cc1HKHr1wOn This Date: Michael Jordan came back to the NBA after playing baseball. 

But his return wasn't enough to stop the @SHAQ-@Iam1Cent led Magic.pic.twitter.com/A7t8AKmXNm30 years ago today, No. 16 Princeton nearly beating No. 1 Georgetown sparked a revolution in the way NCAA basketball was viewed.pic.twitter.com/yqScKMCIsz25 years ago today, Tonya Harding plead guilty to the charge of "conspiracy to hinder prosecution" in the attack of Nancy Kerrigan.pic.twitter.com/YqjOC5CFfm NEW POSTER ALERT 

Our upcoming film "Qualified," about racing legend Janet Guthrie, premiered at @sxsw this week!pic.twitter.com/wXgm6axv26This 30 for 30 is NOT in the works … yet.pic.twitter.com/xBfnLDOBMX(@30for30 piano) What if I told you.... a GM passed on taking a QB, let his best defensive player walk and traded away his best player a year a monster contract. All while keeping Eli... The Giant surprise- presented by Saquon’s best years.The dunk that launched a sneaker war. The first woman to throw down.

Before our next season of podcasts, we bring back ESPN's "Dunkumentaries"
http://apple.co/2XTx1RG pic.twitter.com/axPotuReaeRefresh your @30for30 podcast feed! @Dunkumentaries is one of my favorite projects I’ve worked on; a lot of people didn’t hear it so we’ve featured one of the episodes in the main feed. It’s a bit of a mystery caper about (maybe) the first women’s dunk. https://open.spotify.com/episode/0aWTeLQsFmHOd95AGHej6I?si=qmBl4K5kTTe8g5pFWPJF6A …pic.twitter.com/H4gLqxWw94Earnest tweet forthcoming: We work hard to make @30for30 podcasts and want to better understand our audience so we can make our show even better. This survey will help. Whether you listen or not, we'd appreciate a minute of your time -->http://swurv.in/30for30podcasts Pat Riley will never forget what the Celtics and their fans said about his Lakers.

The rivalry continues Saturday. This should be fun pic.twitter.com/su0H5k0uUmOn #InternationalWomensDay, we bring back our podcast "Six Who Sat."

LISTEN NOW: http://apple.co/2AzCljk pic.twitter.com/5kjOHAfI3k

          @30for30 hasn't Tweeted yet.
      Back to top ↑
      Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.
    
        You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history.
        Learn more
Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends.Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn moreAdd this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn moreHmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again?By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy.This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account.
  
    When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    Get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    See the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  