we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesegyptian goalkeeper,the egyptian national football team captain . born : 1973
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  مصر ، السعودية ، روسيا ، أورجواي .. يا هلا بالسعودية اول مرة نكون مع بعض في المونديال وفي مجموعة واحدة ... نقدر نعملها ونسطر تاريخ جديد للعربpic.twitter.com/7sao96esohpic.twitter.com/rlayhfqk9wالمشكلة بنرجع بنفس الرحله شكلنا مش مهم المهم مصر والسعوديه مع بعض وان شاء الله نحقق انجاز ونفضل اخوه واشقاء وده الاهمان شاء الله بس قولوا لصلاح يهدي علينا شويه .صلاح اتحسد النهارده مش في حالته لا يريح عشان كاس العالم بس .هههههه 
ده احنا هننضرب ضربالجزائر ٢٠١٤ مش اقوى من مصر للامانه، اما بالنسبة لمنتخبنا منتهي من ٢٠٠٦ ، يعني املنا فيكم بالموندايل .اول مره  ده على اساس اننا كل سنه فى كاس العالم انشاء الله يتاهل واحد منا مصر او السعوديهبامرالله الاتنين...  ياااااارباول مره نكون مع بعض ف المونديال 
ده على اساس ان احنا كل يوم ف المونديالايه يا سد يا عالى هتعمل ايه فى المجموعه دى ..
وكله على الله ..
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    