
                    Free Shipping On Orders Of $25+
                
                    Online Only. Exclusions Apply.
                    Details
Select at least two products to compare.You've added the maximum number of products to compare.Would you like to compare the products you've added?You've already added the maximum number of products to compare.Would you like to compare the products you've added?Shop DVDs and videos from DICK'S Sporting Goods and discover intriguing tales of triumph on the field or court and the interesting stories that happen behind the scenes. Whether you are looking for motivation to help you give it your all on the practice field or just love relaxing with captivating stories about the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat, these amazing videos will do the trick. Browse award-winning ESPN 30 for 30 DVD videos that cover everything from classic college football to the untold stories behind some of baseball's best teams.Show off your team spirit on the links with licensed golf accessories from DICK'S Sporting Goods.Sports documentaries from DICK'S Sporting Goods are more than just highlight reels. Brilliantly reported, these films tackle social issues both on and off the field. They offer a look back on some of the most famous events in sporting history and serve to help modern audiences understand the times and places where they took place. Here are some DVDs that are available:Looking for more great gifts for the sports fan in your life? Check out tailgating gear from DICK'S Sporting Goods.Best Price GuaranteeIf you find a lower price, we'll match it.CompanyServicesShopResourcesFollow Us© 2018 DICK'S Sporting Goods
                        
 *Reference prices are past offerings.
                         No sales may have occurred at this price.
                        
 If you are using a screen reader and are having problems using this website, please call 877-846-9997
                        for assistance. 36 USC 220506Featured Searches