we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yes#forçabarça! join us: @fcbarcelona_cat @fcbarcelona_es @fcbarcelona_br @fcbarcelona_jp @fcbarcelona_id, @fcbarcelona_ara @fcbarcelona_fra @fcbarcelona_tr
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
   @kpbofficial pic.twitter.com/gszl8ank3dnextpic.twitter.com/kepijtqeaxthe way barcelona are desperate to sign players these days. even myself i won't be surprised if they call me.no surprises at all as desperate times calls for desperate measures, oh! wait, i was talking about you only, lol. i can play o oh! really, then you should definitely give it a fair try, you just might get called up by them in reality for what i know, all the best. pic.twitter.com/zb8mebf8f2am happy papa .never forget ur bangers @kpbofficial pic.twitter.com/y9m2mezidndreams do come true. delighted for this lad. great talent that almost never tasted great things! @kpbofficial ...enjoy the journey african child.am i the only barça fan who's over excited about @kpbofficial deal? 
kevin is one of the few technically gifted players who had no luck on injury free so am just surprised many are questioning barça..

prince this is your destiny so live it now!! 
#enjoytalentedprincenot a barca fan but i'm a fan of kevin and well saidpic.twitter.com/zwsfinjtz1i hope he proves us wrongi hope so too bruvpic.twitter.com/v4yyso8hnamost people thought the same with paulinho, maybe he’ll resurrect his career at barca
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    