we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesmés que un club. twitter oficial del fc barcelona en català. força barça!
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
   @kpbofficial pic.twitter.com/umio6ifw8c¿lo del "tapado" era por vergüenza? #boatengsiete ritardati?tu sei?spiace, non parlo con chi ironizza col mio profpic.twitter.com/zrclshddkxpic.twitter.com/pavhhpook0espero tragarme el twit pero me parece una cagada de proporciones considerablesgrande @kpbofficial! in bocca al lupo!pic.twitter.com/vcnwbxaol9pic.twitter.com/hrjcsswvgffc barcelona 104@almu_saavedra tía que ya es oficial pues nada me lo tengo que tragar como sea hija mia grande prince in bocca al lupo fratello rossonero per la tua nuova avventura @kpbofficial ma ricordati di farmi il bonifico visto che ora senza te sarà dura al fantacalcio
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    