Team LeBron overcomes a double-digit deficit led by Kevin Durant's MVP performance to beat Team Giannis 178-164. (1:54)The 2019 All-Star Game saw Team LeBron rally past Team Giannis at MJ's house. Here's everything you need to know after All-Star Weekend took over Charlotte, North Carolina.Team LeBron rallies to win: Behind All-Star Game MVP Kevin Durant, Team LeBron stormed back in the second half to capture the victory in Charlotte.King of recruiting?: LeBron James' All-Star draft led to the "Team Tamper" nickname. Now that the game is over, will any of his All-Star teammates make Team LeBron a reality?Dirk and D-Wade's last dance: Dirk Nowitzki let some trademark 3-pointers fly, while Dwyane Wade tossed up one final vintage alley-oop to BFF LeBron James.Grading the All-Stars: Giannis Antetokounmpo may have thrown down the dunk of the night, but how did he and his Team Giannis squad fare in Charlotte? Kevin Pelton grades every player to hit the court.Giannis Antetokounmpo throws down several nasty dunks, leads his team in points with 38 in a loss to Team LeBron.More: Full rosters and draft results | ASG historySkills: Tatum's half-court heave wins it
In a final-round showdown against Trae Young, the Boston Celtics' sophomore let one fly from half court to take home the title.Jayson Tatum needs a half-court shot to knock off Trae Young in the finals of the skills challenge.3s: Nothin' but net
It was all setting up to be Stephen Curry's night, but Joe Harris had other plans. The Brooklyn Nets marksman outshot the hometown favorite 26-24 in the final round to win the 3-point title.Joe Harris outduels Steph Curry and Buddy Hield to win the 3-point contest.Dunks: Diallo brings the Thunder
Oklahoma City rookie Hamidou Diallo channeled his inner Superman, leaping over Shaquille O'Neal and finishing with a Vince Carter-esque slam to capture the crown as dunk-contest king.Hamidou Diallo clears Shaquille O'Neal and gets his elbow in the rim while revealing the Superman logo on his chest.Grading every player on All-Star Saturday Night
How did Seth Curry fare in the 3-point contest? What about Charlotte's own Miles Bridges in the dunk contest? Kevin Pelton grades all 22 participants that hit the court.More: Participants | Previous winnersSomeone give Ray a 10-day! Ray Allen hasn't played since the 2014 NBA Finals, but it didn't show Friday as the Hall of Famer put on a shooting display in Charlotte. Allen put up 24 points and nine rebounds, including plenty of "4-pointers" in a losing effort.Famous Los wins MVP: The comedian, Instagram star and former Division II baller poured in 22 points to take home the MVP and lead Team Home to the thrilling 82-80 victory. He also put up the game's only 5-point play!Ray Allen shows up to play with 24 points, 9 rebounds and 5 assists as Famous Los wins MVP with 22 points in the 2019 NBA All-Star Celebrity Game.MVP Kuzma leads the way: Rising Stars MVP Kyle Kuzma dropped a game-high 35 points to propel Team USA to a 161-144 victory Friday. Ben Simmons carried Team World with 28 of his own.Dunk contest ... on a Friday? Hawks high flyer John Collins, who participated in the dunk contest Saturday night, warmed up with handful of highlight-reel slams.Rising Stars grades: How did Rookie of the Year favorite Luka Doncic fare? What about stars Donovan Mitchell and Jayson Tatum? Kevin Pelton grades the games of all 20 players to hit the court in Charlotte.John Collins, Marvin Bagley III and Ben Simmons highlight the best dunks from the 2019 NBA Rising Stars Challenge.More: Full rosters | Rising Stars historyStep into the shoes of one of this year's NBA All-Star captains and pick your squad like you're back on the playground. Can you draft a winning team?Grading the All-Star Game | Saturday night | Rising StarsKing James' next challenge: Making Team LeBron a realityThe most important things we saw at All-Star | Best kicksQueen City swag: Flashiest fashion at All-Star WeekendGOATs on GOATs: LeBron and MJ in their own wordsExperts' picks for All-Star WeekendBest moments, biggest questions from the All-Star draftFive names ready to dominate the next 10 All-Star gamesWade, Nowitzki added to ASG rosters by Adam SilverJokic, Simmons highlight first-time All-Star selectionsNBA shot chart trivia: Guess that All-StarThe Undefeated's 2019 NBA All-Star Snub TeamMalone coaches Team LeBron | Budenholzer coaches Team GiannisSimmons, Mitchell, Doncic headline Rising Stars rostersBen Simmons: Fallen star to All-Star 'drip'J. Cole and Meek Mill headline NBA All-Star GameLowe's All-Stars: 24 players, and who missed the cutWhen: Friday
Where: Bojangles' Coliseum, Charlotte
TV: ESPN (7 p.m. ET)When: Friday
Where: Spectrum Center, Charlotte
TV: TNT (9 p.m. ET)When: Saturday
Where: Spectrum Center, Charlotte
TV: TNT (8 p.m. ET)When: Sunday
Where: Spectrum Center, Charlotte
TV: TNT (8 p.m. ET)To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?