Breanna Stewart's Achilles injury shines a light on the fair pay disparity in the WNBA and the need for changes in the new CBA. Voepel » Stewart ruptures Achilles » What's next? Catchings knows » Breanna Stewart's Achilles injury shines a light on the fair pay disparity in the WNBA and the need for changes in the new CBA. Voepel » Stewart ruptures Achilles » What's next? Catchings knows » Inspiration at the intersection of sports, business and culture.Join us on May 8, 2019, for the first-ever espnW Summit, NYC.Sarah Spain will host the event alongside leading ESPN voices like Julie Foudy, Jessica Mendoza and Maria Taylor. Join them for an inspiring day with thought-leaders, marketing executives, professional athletes and influencers.Register today! »Managing motherhoodespnW confidentially surveyed 37 professional athletes about the realities of becoming a mom during their careers.© 2019 ESPN Internet Ventures. Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, Your California Privacy Rights, Children's Online Privacy Policy and Internet-Based Ads are applicable to you. All rights reserved.Give us feedback!10 hours agoLaughter Permitted makes a stop at Disney World and welcomes guest Sydney Leroux Dwyer, a professional soccer player for the Orlando Pride, an Olympic gold medalist and World Cup champion. Sydney talks about being a true "soccer mom" and expecting her second child this summer.Check out the espnW top 10 plays of the week including action from the NWSL, NCAA softball and the IIHF Women's World Championship.25 minutes agoCourtney Lyle makes her 7Innings Podcast debut as the crew spends an hour with the Florida State coaches. Plus, we talk Oklahoma, UCLA and the ACC Network.Sarah SpainAcknowledging conflicted feelings about Tiger Woods seems to incite great anger. Instead it should inspire conversation, writes espnW's Sarah Spain. Read more ...Guard Evina Westbrook, who tied for the Lady Vols' lead with 14.9 points per game and had a team-high 5.3 assists per game, has opted to transfer to another school. Read more ...