There were five goals in the first 21 minutes, two goals decided by VAR and a wild ending: Spurs' aggregate win over Man City was unforgettable.With Pep Guardiola once again crashing out of the Champions League, the FC panel confront the question of whether or not the City manager is overrated.No longer a one-trick pony, Liverpool are now as adept at grinding out results as they are at winning  thrillers. Next up, Barcelona.Liverpool handled Porto 4-1 in a very professional second-leg performance, Sadio Mane, Fabinho and Jordan Henderson the Reds' stars on the night.Jeff CarlisleMohamed Salah has handed in a transfer request following a long-standing argument with Jurgen Klopp. Transfer Talk is LIVE with the latest.ESPN FC's Shaka Hislop delves into the latest transfer rumours, including: Wilfried Zaha, Matthijs de Ligt, Malcom and more in Transfer Rater.Juventus manager Max Allegri has been warning his squad about their inconsistent form. It finally cost Ronaldo & Co. in the Champions League.The fee Juve paid to sign Cristiano Ronaldo is €20m more than Ajax's annual revenue, yet the Dutch club proved too much for the Italians' riches.Gab Marcotti joins the FC crew to discuss Ajax’s impressive elimination of Juventus and Messi’s magical performance to take care of Manchester United.Manage your squad in the Premier League, Champions League, MLS, La Liga and Liga MX.The host of 'Always Late' on ESPN+ checked a big item on her bucket list when she visited Anfield.The world's best striker has his sights set on an NFL career. Why can't he make it happen?To celebrate the release of "Captain Marvel," ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.On Feb. 8, a fire at an uninspected youth dormitory at one of Brazil's highest-earning teams caused 10 preventable deaths. How?Some of soccer's biggest grudge matches take place over the final three months of the season. Here's your must-have guide.The tragic disappearance of Emiliano Sala, bound for new club Cardiff on a single-engine plane, raises the question: How did this happen?Here are the top 100 players and managers in men's soccer, as rated by our experts.A United States legend came out of retirement, again. We were in San Diego to see how Landon Donovan got on and to ask him: "Why?"For most clubs, losing a star like Frenkie De Jong would be a killer. For Ajax, it's their business model.In an exclusive interview, Christian Pulisic reflects on his time in Germany, the challenge of playing in the Premier League and the state of the USMNT.When Boca Juniors and River Plate were set to meet in Argentina's most important match ever, Buenos Aires lost its mind.Sergio Ramos is a master, Wilfried Zaha knows how to win a free kick and chicanery from corners can be crucial. Welcome to the dark arts.Deliberate isolation. Petty feuds. Constant turmoil. The Manchester United manager wouldn't have it any other way.We examine the UK and Ireland, Germany, Italy, Spain and France to look at areas of production and ask our writers to explain the results.PSG star Neymar was the muse for the main character of a new comic book series, "Inked," in which tattoos come alive to help fight crime.The biggest problem with the Champions League is that it's trying to be everything to everyone. It's time for the tournament to go rogue.When you win the World Cup at 19, where is left to go? This is the challenge -- and possible nightmare -- facing Kylian Mbappe, writes Simon Kuper.In November 2016, Brazilian underdogs Chapecoense boarded a plane to play in the game of their lives. Instead, their biggest moment turned into a tragedy no one can forget.Keep track of all the important upcoming fixtures in the Premier League, Champions League, La Liga, English Football League and more.Results and scores from the Premier League, Champions League, La Liga, English Football League and more.Updated tables from the Premier League, Champions League, La Liga, English Football League and more.To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?