we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yescuenta oficial. capitán del @realmadrid y de la @sefutbol. embajador de @unicef_es. corazón, carácter y pasión. ig: sergioramos
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  el mundial te echará de menos, @gianluigibuffon. ¡ánimo, amigo! eres muy grande.pic.twitter.com/pn2oary6tujames con barbathe best in the world!!!pic.twitter.com/bm5lqxrn6jjajajajaja ese sergio ramos me parece que es muy envidioso...nunca llegara a ser tan grande como buffon por esaa tonteriaskarma 1 - 0 italia pic.twitter.com/o96ztmhds7italia 4 - 1 españaitalia vs españa, sobran palabraspic.twitter.com/fhmihahtr9a ver si ganáis este también. cruckni en el caso de que españa ganase este mundial, cosa imposible, le llegaría a la suela del zapatocreo que imposible es que lo gane italia.  en el fútbol lo que de verdad importa es el presente y últimamente españa ha humillado varias veces a italia. de todas formas tu has visto los mismos mundiales de italia que yo de españa. lo más presente que hay, es que italia eliminó a españa de la pasada eurocopa, y que españa perdió de forma lamentable y humillante la fase de grupos del pasado mundial contra dos selecciones que ni siquiera se clasificaron para este.para los que amamos el futbol es un inmenso dolor no verlo a bufon en un mundial.
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    