we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesjugador del @atleti y de la @sefutbol . instagram: http://instagram.com/alvaromorata  facebook: http://facebook.com/alvaromorata 
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  eres una leyenda el fútbol y la gente te echará de menos en rusia pero todavía te quedan por levantar muchas copas!! orgulloso de haberte conocido gigi. @gianluigibuffon pic.twitter.com/9hnto70iz0qué gesto de amor con estas palabras del corazón muy grande, álvaro #fuerzagigie adesso scendono le lacrime 
alvaroooo miss yougrazie alvaroalvaro sempre speciale leo ! gianluigi and cristiano !!!! álvaro, siempre estarás en los corazones de juventus gracias por tu palabrasalvarito la classe nella vita non la si compra al supermercato e tu ne ha a quantità industriale!!! @sem_chione of the best goalkeeper in the world will be missed in russia. world cup won't be same without italy. #legendgigiclass act alvaro #cfcone day we will be giving you such love if you keep up your good works for #chelseafcgrazie !i love you both omg  alvaro sei unico 
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    