we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesالتطبيق الرياضي الأول في السعودية  لتحميل التطبيق: https://goo.gl/yfhywf  للدعم الفني يرجى التواصل عبر البريد التالي: support@dawriplus.com
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  ٩٧’ السد العالي عصام الحضري يسجّل الهدف الرابع للتعاون في شباك الاتفاق ٤-٠
#التعاون_الاتفاق
#دوري_بلسpic.twitter.com/4s9mj230vgpic.twitter.com/ugl4dorc41شاتها كأنها ضربة مرمى @nsoo7y الحضري يسجل هدف ضد الاتفاق@mwtosson aho ya totiafta7o 3ashan khatrak habiby ya toutiالله عليك يا فخر مصر السد العالي اللي مشرفنا@moooooh4355 byshotha zayena ana 7aset n ent el da5elمسخره الإتفاق (الاسد) الحضري تألق بنصف مستواه..
وسجل هدفاً ...
وكأنه يقول له:
 حتى على جثتي لن تتراقص الـ.......!!

@tariqalnofalpic.twitter.com/yvy00qr8q0التاريخ يعيد نفسه هدف الخوجلي في الانصارpic.twitter.com/9vc61camyyالطعمية رفس ام الكورةعلقهاركّب امهاجلدهم . لا تتحمسون كثير
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    