we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yes#ucl 
spanish: @ligadecampeones u19: @uefayouthleague youtube: http://uefa.tv 
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  spectacular. the round of 16 draw 

most exciting tie? 

#ucldrawpic.twitter.com/zjubmvlwvlqf
man city
juventus
man united
tottenham
barcelona
roma
real madrid
bayernman united will beat psg... .
oki’m a united fan and even i know we can’t. not with mou in the managers box.pic.twitter.com/9zwtijr6iwngl loving the new stadiums new cabinetpic.twitter.com/sdmbno8j4aman united vs psg is the game.pic.twitter.com/xvn69byerhthe round of  draw  #ucldraw
#ucl #cristianoronaldo #rinubabum #cr7 #rbm #universeofrinu #footballpic.twitter.com/k9uflfpty2interesting round of 16yespic.twitter.com/yhkbuwypbhand they didn't cope on shaqiri only for 20 minutes liverpool vs bayern
&
tottenham vs dortmund united vs psg loooooolare u talking about psg's trainings?obviously yes 
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    