we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yes#ucl 
spanish: @ligadecampeones u19: @uefayouthleague youtube: http://uefa.tv 
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
   group winners 
 barcelona
 bayern 
 dortmund 
 juventus 
 man. city 
 paris 
 porto 
 real madrid 

 runners-up 
 ajax 
 atlético
 liverpool 
 lyon 
 manchester united 
 roma
 schalke 
 tottenham 

#ucldrawpic.twitter.com/1o9fxjojb5my prediction....pic.twitter.com/rhavn2lifnbarcelona - liverpoolwho wants barca vs roma again ??? united vs atm

not possibleyh i no#schalke be like "what i'm doing here?"pic.twitter.com/5htl6zthmyi will be exciting if liverpool face barcelona...man. city - roma 
porto - united
barca - schalke
bayern - lyon 
dortmund - liverpool 
paris - ajax 
real madrid - tottenham
juventus - atleticobarca-schalke
bayern-tottenham
dortmund-ajax
juve-lyon
city-roma
psg-manu
porto-atm
real-liverpoolreali bu kadar kısa sürede eletmezler diye düşünüyorum kankabaktımda reali eleyemeyecek takım yok kanla zatenpic.twitter.com/rpcnyjzfok
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    