we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yeswelcome to the official twitter account of chelsea football club. download our new app!  http://che.lc/the5thstand are you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @chelseafcthat's all from gianfranco zola for now. there will be more from him and olivier giroud on the web and the app later on. thanks for following. #cheslazola says toni rudiger's injury is not as bad as first thought. there is a strong chance he will be back for the man utd game. zola adds gary cahill could be on the bench tomorrow, and stresses the club captain has been the ultimate professional this season. #cheslazola says eden hazard is at the very top of the list of great overseas chelsea players. he says he has enjoyed watching him mature this season, adding the belgian is a 'top boy' off the pitch as well. #cheslazola says we need to maintain our focus on the football for the remainder of the season. he says if we are able to finish in the top four and win the europa league it would be a remarkable season. #cheslazola says there will be some changes tomorrow but not many. 'we are very aware we are playing a good team and we have to play at our best.'

#chesladue to a minor medical procedure, maurizio sarri will be replaced by his assistant gianfranco zola for tonight's pre-slavia prague press conference. 

#cheslapic.twitter.com/unfpnynnsngiroud says in the first match against slavia prague, chelsea were impressed by our opponents. we know they are not going to give up tomorrow and we will have to be at 100 per cent. #cheslagiroud says he is frustrated when he is not on the pitch, he just doesn't show it. he is looking for greater involvement next season wherever that may be. he confirms it could be chelsea.  #cheslagiroud emphasises that the team is still determined to qualify for the champions league via the premier league route, as well as trying to win the europa league. he thinks if we win our remaining pl games we can do that. #cheslaolivier giroud has arrived to talk to the media. he says his good goal record in the europa league this season is due to his game time in the competition. #chesla#batappreciationday pic.twitter.com/c40msb0rqrwhat would your starting 11 be for tomorrow's game? 
#cheslai’m so excited to be back at stamford bridge, this time playing for the soccer aid world xi against england on sunday 16 june.  i’m teaming up with my mates @didierdrogba and riccy carvalho to beat @therealjoecole  get tickets at http://www.socceraid.org.uk/tickets  #socceraid #unicefpic.twitter.com/kmhdsrclkjyou don't hit them sweeter than that! 
@davidluiz_4 v fulham on this day in 2013!pic.twitter.com/nmgxphaiynyou can watch tonight's press conference with maurizio sarri and olivier giroud live in the chelsea app from 7pm (uk)...

 http://che.lc/the5thstand  #chesla @davidluiz_4pic.twitter.com/jj7kqhlyacshirts from our 2-0 win against west ham are now up for grabs to raise funds for the @cfcfoundation! 

auction closes on 25 april.chelsea tv will be going fully digital, on-demand and subscription-free to all fans on monday 1 july! 

everything you need to know icymi: @michaelessien is coming back to the bridge for this year's @socceraid! 
 http://socceraid.org.uk/tickets  @hazardeden10

two days until chelsea v slavia prague! pic.twitter.com/wa2ptuad0x

          @chelseafc hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  