we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesthe official #carabaocup twitter feed from @efl, featuring latest scores and news! 
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  #carabaocup draw: 

@chelseafc v @arsenal
@mancity v @bcfctweetspic.twitter.com/5zrlghtckwyou want some chips with that salt?very generous fixture schedule this season, very easy group in the cl league, very easy round 16 draw just to name a few...city with an easy draw...pic.twitter.com/woccskvirkthey could have drawn all 3 teams in a 33 v 11 game and still probably wintrue lolwhat true? stupid ryan. they've won both their last cup matches through penalties. chelsea or arsenal would easily knock them out i don’t mind lol. we can knock anyone out!london derby
(not) manchester derby

#ggmupic.twitter.com/dhbi9zwv8cso you had planned a london derby and a manchester derby.chelsea fans keep on saying rigged just because city got an easy team.
so it would have been fair if chelsea got bristol??!!easy team? we’ve just knocked 4 prem teams out in successive rounds.... yeah easy team we are easy is a poor choice of words. easiest team would be better. it will be a tough game against you but compared to arsenal or chelsea i would have taken bristol.that's what i meant to say!chelsea will win this cuppic.twitter.com/ri3zlrypofconte's beaten wenger only once in england, easy w for us coming
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    