we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesthe official afc asian cup™ twitter page
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  vietnam  celebrating their win as they are the first team through to the #asiancup2019 quarter-finals!pic.twitter.com/f1t4gsoso4my teammmmmmmm congratulations! thank u  we r so touched bc of our victory.we are very proud of you, vietnam golden stars.giữ gìn sức khỏe, thi đấu thật tốt 
cố lên, chúng tôi tự hào về các anh next indonesia, maybethey’re not in the asian cup..in kalpanak cup, u know kalpanak cup?humorku sebatas ini congrats vietnam  team

hope to see you in semi final

an iranian.congratulations, vietnam. keep going on!!thật tuyệt với! chúng ta đã chiến đấu quả cảm như những chiên binh!congratulations vietnam deserves to go through..ohh congratulations vietnam! you are a super team ! go ahead !so proud of the highly talented & young vietnam team! woo hoo making historyvietnam
i’m so proud....... let’s goo!!!!!!!
cùng ăn mừng nàowhat a wonderful match! proud of you, vietnam team.
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    