we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yes
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  it has been a great honour to form part of bayern’s history. i would like to thank the club, the players and it's amazing fans. #miasanmiapic.twitter.com/oz7mlllerscome to @manutd please carloif mourinho doesn't win premier league this season, ancelotti is the man, not only for the league. 3 times champions league winner.i don't think mourinho will win us the league i'd kill to have ancelotti at my club we needed someone like him ever since ferguson retiredman utd fans are crazy. if you finish top 3 and win something jose has done a good job! it's not your right to win the leaguetrust me it's not all united fans. just the minority of mugs that have no clue. no one in there right mind would want jose outgrazie carloyou are  the best carlo #ladecimapic.twitter.com/9p0zrdbfpmpic.twitter.com/xx0rmozbyltake j10 with you! that would be amazing.thanks for everything carlo and good luck in the future! #miasanmiathank u & good luck #miasanmiaalways a gentlemanalwaysthank you mr. ancelotti for your time at bayern munich! 
it did not work out sadly!
all the best in your future & good luck!
still one of the best coaches the football world ever had!
grazie carlo! #miasanmia #ancelotti
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    