we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesthe official manchester city twitter account | supporter services  @mancityhelp | #mancity
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  jumping for joy! #afcvcitypic.twitter.com/doi9veslpiam a red but you guys are on fire.yess so up man cityarsenal (crying): please give us the ball.
pep: sure, after the match.can anyone at city just let me know why kyle walker has different socks to the rest of the team with those dots down his calf? noticed it a while ago but only now thought to askpleasure to watch!we all saw it, @benmendy23 pic.twitter.com/3nzoghmz2dwell done well deserved wish our players would play for the badge like yours do. congratulationspep has older his boys to stop scoring and just playing round the pitch.

#rff
laporte, stones, and jesus for otamendi, gundogan and aguerohacks me defence is glitched
back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    