SubscribeMoreSubscribeMoreLatest Video{{ currentStream.Desc }}{{ video.Name
                                        }}The information you requested is not available at this time, please check back again soon.ColumnistsNine names to watch at the CFL’s European player draftTSN on TwitterFantasy GamesDraft the perfect team in fantasy hockey!Sign up for fantasy basketball and build your Super Team!Sign up for fantasy baseball and swing for the fences!TSN PODCASTSJay Onrait and Dan O'Toole bring you their weekly podcast.TSN Hockey Insider Bob McKenzie brings you a bi-weekly podcast focused on the NHL and the hockey world as a whole.James Duthie is joined by TSN staffers Lester McLean, Sean 'Puffy' Cameron and a special guest each episode to chat sports and just about anything else.TSN’s Kate Beirness and two-time Olympian Cheryl Pounder are making their mark on female empowerment with the launch of the Her Mark Podcast.A weekly syndicated radio show that profiles the excitement, news and insight of Canadian amateur hockey across Canada.        
                        2h ago
            

Contract talks between the CFL and its players have turned ugly. The CFL Players' Association has instructed its players not to make travel arrangements to attend training camps when they open May 19.Punter Ryan sheds light on his football futureO’Connor showcases his stuff for CFL, NFL staff at UBC pro dayNaylor: Wording of Redblacks' press release regarding Elizondo 'absolutely intentional'Naylor: League delaying CBA negotiations puts more pressure on CFLPA        
                                                            Apr 16
                                        

The 2018 season was another profitable one for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers. The Bombers announced Tuesday they posted a profit of $2.6 million last season.        
                                                            Apr 15
                                        

Despite a social media report Monday suggesting Edmonton would be changing its name to Empire, Allan Watt, a marketing and communications official with the Eskimos, said there's nothing imminent regarding a new team monicker.        
                                                            Apr 15
                                        

Joe Paopao is returning to Ottawa. The Redblacks announced on Monday that the former head coach of the Renegades will be joining the club as running backs coach.        
                                                            Apr 12
                                        

The Alliance of American Football has suspended operations, but CFL clubs won’t be able to sign players who are under contract with AAF teams until those contracts are officially voided.  The CFL released a statement regarding the situation Friday afternoon.        
                                                            Apr 13
                                        

Clifford Starke wants to return the Montreal Alouettes to their former glory. Starke grew up in Montreal attending Alouettes games at a sold-out Molson Stadium seated with then club president Larry Smith, best friend Brad Smith and Smith's grandmother.         
                                                            Apr 12
                                        

Laval Rouge et Or defensive lineman Mathieu Betts remains the top-ranked player in the CFL Scouting Bureau's final rankings for the 2019 Canadian draft. UBC quarterback native Michael O'Connor is No. 17, up from 19th in December.        
                                                            Apr 11
                                        

France's Valentin Gnahoua was the first player taken Thursday in the CFL's first-ever European player draft. The six-foot-one, 235-pound defensive lineman from Le Mans, France, was selected first overall by the Hamilton Tiger-Cats.        
                                                            Apr 12
                                        

Former Montreal Alouettes running back Cierre Wood has been charged with the murder of his girlfriend's daughter in Las Vegas, reports ABC 57. Wood, 28, and his girlfriend, 25-year-old Amy Taylor, were already facing charges of first-degree child abuse/neglect, but the charges were upgraded following the death of the five-year-old child on Thursday evening. The initial arrest occurred on Wednesday.        
                                                            Apr 11
                                        

Montreal businessman Clifford Starke has formally announced his intent to purchase the Montreal Alouettes. The 35-year-old chairman of Hampstead Private Capital put out a press release Thursday to confirm his interest.        
                                                            Apr 10
                                        

The Canadian Football League Players' Association says the CFL has "unilaterally" decided to delay contract negotiations.        
                                                            Apr 10
                                        

After five consecutive weeks of two-day bargaining, the CFL informed the CFLPA that they won't be continuing negotiations until April 29th. Dave Naylor explains why this move puts more pressure on the players with the current CBA set to expire in about six weeks.         
                                                            Apr 10
                                        

CFL head coaches will have the opportunity this season to launch two challenges in a game. The league's board of governors accepted a recommendation Wednesday from the CFL's rules committee that if a coach's first challenge is successful, he gets to issue a second in the same game. Last season, coaches had just one challenge per contest.        
                                                            Apr 9
                                        

Canadian punter Jon Ryan, who played two seasons in the Canadian Football League before winning a Super Bowl during a 12-year NFL career, reiterated that he wants to return to Canada and as many as four teams are in the mix for his services.Punter Ryan sheds light on his football futureThe top Canadian prospects for the 2019 CFL Draft, and 18 European players, will participate in the CFL National Combine in Toronto from March 22-24. TSN.ca will track prospects' results over the weekend.Tracking all the free agents from each team ahead of the 2019 season.The 2019 CFL on TSN Broadcast Schedule.