this app is only available on the app store for ios devices.breaking news and the fastest live football scores straight to your mobile – goal news now has the best of both worlds.transfer rumours, in-depth articles, live scores, goal alerts, match stats… we’ve got it all.features include:around the clock newsdive into goal’s massive collection of detailed articles and breaking news stories.transfer updatesbe the first to know the latest transfer news, from the planet’s best sources.worldwide coverageenglish premier league, la liga, bundesliga, serie a, ligue 1, champions league… we cover the globe.instant notificationsbreaking news and live goal alerts – you will not find a faster football app!comprehensive match dataextensive statistics powered by opta, including; line-ups, live text commentary, tables, fixtures and more.head-to-head statsa head-to-head section to see how upcoming opponents have performed against each other.version 9.2.3performance enhancements- bug fixes and stability improvements.goal used to be a great app. i have used goal for news and scores for probably 8 years at least and its gotten to the point where i hate to use it anymore. for starters, the ad’s are incredibly intrusive. its one thing for ad’s to just be everywhere but goal forces them upon you and anytime you open the app or a story ad’s constantly pop up in your face and you cant even use the app until time has expired. i cant even remember one ad because i get so mad when it pops up i refuse to look at it. additionally media does not work on the iphone app. i have never been able to open a story with a video and watch it on the iphone app. multimedia on iphone apps is pretty norm so it shouldnt be hard to deliver videos to a mobile iphone app.i used to love this app. it has stayed at the top of my football (soccer) news apps through multiple generations of iphones. i can’t remember the update where the relationship began to degrade, i just know that now it is no longer tolerable. for one reason: ads! i know apps make money from ads (we all experience it), but this app forces it down your throat. you can’t even open the app without an ad popping up (without warning) and with no visible way to close or stop it. if you have the patience to actually make it to an article, be prepared to be “attacked” again. the goal app was world-class, no i’m looking to the bench. plenty of other apps for the football news i’m looking for.this app is nowhere to be found now on my iphone, i uninstalled it.adapting to the biased writers and the poor editor’s choices in articles was easy. given the fact goal did an excellent job in keeping you up to date with soccer statistics from around the world.now goal’s app is an atrocity to all news and entertainment apps thanks to their broken ads. i don’t mind closing an advertisement once in a while to support the company. what i do mind is having to close ads two to three times at a time. in one session alone i’ve been bombarded with 4 ads in a span of 5 seconds !!! unacceptable !after the inconvenience of scanning for the x button around the screen, i’m ready to digest the content with a little music... well you can’t, you see goal controls your devices audio, so you’re forced to watch their ads with full audio. then you’re expected to return to your music app and reselect your playlist/song just so you can continue vibing to your music.well, i’m vibing out of goal’s foul and annoying joke of an app.requires ios 9.0 or later. compatible with iphone, ipad, and ipod touch.english, arabic, bosnian, croatian, dutch, french, german, hungarian, indonesian, italian, japanese, korean, portuguese, simplified chinese, spanish, thai, traditional chinese, turkish, vietnamesewith family sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app.